



Happiness (1998) movie script - Screenplays for You















Screenplays for You - free movie scripts and screenplays                    





About


Links









Screenplays, movie scripts and transcripts organized alphabetically:


#
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

PDF


ALL



Happiness (1998)by Todd Solondz.More info about this movie on IMDb.comFOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY 







1.	EXT.  HAPPY'S RESTAURANT - NIGHT.			1.

The sign is illuminated.


2.	INT.  HAPPY'S RESTAURANT - NIGHT.			2.

Pretty, 30ish JOY JORDAN and teary-eyed STUART sit opposite
each other.  He is trying to resist bursting into tears as
they finish dessert.

JOY
	Stuart? Are you okay?

STUART
	Yeah. Sure. I'm fine.

JOY
	Good. Well. I had a really nice time.

STUART
	Yeah. Me too.

JOY
	Of course, you know I've always
	had a nice time with you.

STUART
	Same here.

JOY
	But

STUART
	Yeah.

JOY
	You understand.

STUART
	Unh.

JOY
	And you don't hate me?

STUART
	No.

JOY
	'Cause you know I could never
	hate you. At the same time, I just
	don't think I could everyou know
	you.  In the way you should be

STUART
	Yeah.

JOY
	And deserve to be.

STUART
	Unh hunh.

JOY
	Well. The food here was excellent
	I'm gonna recommend it to my
	sisters! How many stars did it get?

STUART
	Three and a half.

And the dam cracks wide open.  He bawls.  A pause.

JOY
	Do you feel better now?
(STUART nods)
	Me too.

STUART
	I'm sorry.

JOY
	It's really good we had this talk.

STUART
	Yeah.

JOY
	Before things went too far
	You know, got too serious.

STUART
	Yeah. I'm sorry. I'm too serious.

JOY
	No, you're not.  It's me.

STUART
	No, it's me.

JOY
	Okay. It's you. I'm sorry.

STUART
	Okay.

Pause.

JOY
	'Cause I mean

STUART
	I know.

JOY
	The thing is, I want to do what's
	right  for both of us.  I spent
	a lot of timeexaminingmy heart.
	And I felt that you deserved
	my honesty.

STUART
	Thanks.

Pause.

JOY
	Now I just want to make you
	whole again.

STUART
	I'm whole.

JOY
	Really?

STUART
	Really.

JOY
	'Cause I was afraid we wouldn't
	be able to be friends anymore.

STUART
(laughing, sort of)
	Oh, Joy!

JOY
	Oh, but you know how it is.
	And well, most guys

STUART
	I'm not most guys.

JOY
	I know. If only most guys were
	like you.

STUART
	But then I'd be like most guys.

JOY
(laughs)
	Oh, Stuart. If only I felt the way
	I'd like to feel with you Life is
	so unfair.  It's all my fault.

STUART
	I know.
(a beat)
	Are you sure?

JOY
	Yes.

Pause.

STUART
	Is it someone else?

JOY
	No, it's just you.

Pause.

STUART
	I want to show you something
	I got for you.

JOY
	For me?

STUART
(hands her a gift)
	Open it up.

JOY
(discovers a pewter ashtray)
	Oh, but Stuart. This isoh,
	this is beautiful.

STUART
	Thanks. It's a Gainsevoort
	reproduction. Boston, late 1800's.
	I sent away for it just after
	we had ourfirst date.

JOY
	Oh, I just love it.  It's ait's a
	collector's item.

STUART
	Yeah, it is pretty special.

JOY
(laughs)
	It almost makes me want to start
	smoking again!

STUART
	Look at the bottom.

JOY
(examines more closely)
	Ooh.

STUART
	Forty karat gold-plate inlaid base.

JOY
	Oh, Stuart. Thank you. This really
	means something to me. I'll always
	treasure itas a token

STUART
	No, you won't.
(retrieves his gift;
a sudden shift in emotion:)
	'Cause this is for the girl who
	loves me. The girl who cares for me,
	for who I am, not what I look like.
	I wanted you to know what you'd be
	missing. You think I don't appreciate
	art. You think I don't understand
	fashion. You think I'm not hip.
	You think I'm pathetic, a nerd,
	a lard-ass fatso. You think I'm shit.
	Well, you're wrong. 'Cause I'm
	champagne. And you're shit.
	And till the day you die, you,
	not me, will always be shit.


3.	EXT.  ROAD - NIGHT.					3.

Thunder.  Rain.  STUART's car drives by.


4.	INT.  STUART'S CAR - NIGHT.				4.

JOY sits beside STUART, who is driving.  A plastic "World of
Pewter" shopping bag hangs by the glove compartment.


5.	EXT.  JOY'S PLACE - NIGHT.				5.

The car pulls over.

JOY
	Well, good night.

STUART
	Good night.

JOY gets out.  STUART drives away.

FADE TO BLACK.


6.	INT.  BILL'S OFFICE - DAY.				6.

ALLEN talks to his psychiatrist, BILL MAPLEWOOD.

ALLEN
	I dunno, but whenever I see her
	I just want toyou knowI want to
	undress her, I want to tie her up
	and pump her pump pump pump till
	she screams bloody murder. And then
	I want to flip her ass over and
	pump her even more and so hard my
	dick shoots right through her and
	so that my come squirts out of
	her mouth Not that I could ever
	actuallydo that Oh, if only she
	knew how I felt, how deep down I
	really cared for her, respected her,
	she would love me back. Maybe.
	But she hardly even knows I exist.
	I mean, she knows I exist  we are
	neighbors, we smile politely
	at each other But I don't know
	how I could ever begin to really
	talk to her, what can I talk about?
	I have nothing to talk about.
	I'm boring. I know. I've been told
	before, so don't tell me it's not
	true. 'Cause it's a fact. I bore
	people. People look at me and they
	get bored. They listen to me and
	they zone out, bored And for her
	to see how boring I amno, no, no
	It's better I say nothing and hope
	though right now, I have to say,
	if I were to suddenly jump out of
	my window, she wouldn't care. I mean,
	she'd care, of course, she'd care,
	I mean, she is human, but I mean
	she'd care the way you care about a
	stranger you read about in the paper
	that jumps in front of a running
	subway train, a stranger whose name
	you're never sure how to pronounce,
	if it's even printed. I'd be an
	anectodemaybe. But you know what
	I'm going to do? When I see her
	next time, as soon as I see her,
	I'm just going to tell hertell her
	I find herattractive. And that'll
	be that. Thenthen we'll see


7.	EXT.  HIGH RISE - EVENING.				7.

HELEN parks, gets out of her car, walks towards the
apartment building entrance.


8.	INT.  HIGH RISE LOBBY - EVENING.			8.

HELEN walks towards the elevator and waits beside ALLEN.

ALLEN mumbles something.  HELEN is oblivious.

ALLEN
	How's it going?

HELEN
	Okay.

The elevator arrives.


9.	INT.  ELEVATOR - EVENING.				9.

ALLEN and HELEN step inside.  They ride in silence up to
their floor.


10.	INT.  HALLWAY - EVENING.				10.

ALLEN and HELEN emerge from the elevator.

ALLEN
	See ya.

HELEN
	Yeah.

And they walk their separate ways.


11.	INT.  ALLEN'S APARTMENT - EVENING.		11.

ALLEN drops his stuff.

He takes a shower.

He lies down.

He glances at a book of poetry.  CLOSE ON the jacket photo
of the author and accompanying brief bio (i.e. "Nominated
for the PEN/Faulkner Prize for poetry, Helen Jordan has
taught at Harvard, Yale")

He leans his head against the wall, listens to HELEN making
love to somebody next door: "Oh, Helen! Helen! Helen!" etc.
He removes his ear from the wall, sits on the bed, a phone
book beside him.

He starts flipping randomly through the phone book.  He
turns to a page.  He dials a number from the book.  No
answer.  He sighs.  Tries to next number down.  A man picks
up.  ALLEN hangs up immediately.  He dials again.  A
beautiful-sounding WOMAN picks up.

ALLEN
	Hello, is this Claire?

WOMAN (V.O.)
Who is this?

ALLEN hangs up.  He buries his head in his hands.


12.	INT.  TRISH'S PLACE - DAY.				12.

JOY sits in the kitchen with her sister TRISH, who is doing
her nails.  Trish's baby CHLOE lies in JOY'S lap.  JUANITA
the cleaning woman cleans up in the b.g.  The family dog
KOOKI teethes on a bone.

Cute little TIMMY appears, in a Robocop-style outfit.

TRISH
	Oh, Timmy!  Look who's here!

TIMMY
(aiming a laser at JOY)
	Die, Aunt Joy! Die!

TRISH
	Timmy!

She tries to go after him, but he has already run off.

JOY
	Oh, leave him alone, Trish.
	He's just going through a phase.

TRISH
	Oh, I know, but

JOY
(trying to make light)
	It's okay. I'm strong enough.

JOY suddenly bursts into tears.

TRISH
	Oh, Joy, Joy. What's the matter?

JOY
	I don't know what it is,
	but I feel there's so much
	hostility directed at me.

TRISH
	Did another guy dump you?

JOY
	No! Ioh, I feel horrible.

TRISH
	Aww. Timmy didn't mean it.

JOY
	I'm sorry.  I-I'm just overworked.

TRISH
	It's okay.  Because now maybe
	you'll listen to me.

JOY
	What?

A weighty pause.

TRISH
	You've got to eat red meat.

JOY
	Oh, Trish

TRISH
	Oh, I knew that's how you'd react,
	but it's true. I've been watching you
	and, well My doctor says just
	once a month

JOY
	I know

TRISH
	Really. It's the best thing for
	the skin. It'll clear it all up.

JOY
	What's wrong with my skin?

TRISH
	It's fine now, but in another
	few years Please, Joy.
	I'm speaking for your own good.

JOY
	Oh, I know. Thanks.

A tender moment: TRISH and JOY hold hands.

JOY
	I'm so happy.

TRISH
	Are you really?

JOY
	Being around you and the kids

TRISH
	Oh And I'm so happy you're happy.
	'Cause all this time I've been
	thinking you were so miserable.

JOY
	Oh, Trish! That's too funny,
	when I couldn't be happier.

TRISH
	It's just, what with your
	music career never really

JOY
	My career's fine!

TRISH
	Oh, I know, it will be!
	I just know it! And then you'll
	move out of Mom and Dad's

JOY
	Real soon!

TRISH
	And you'll meet Mr. Right!

JOY
	Oh, I will. Already I feel
	I'm off to a fresh start!

TRISH
	That's right. Just because
	you've hit 30, doesn't mean you
	can't be fresh anymore.

JOY
	That's right.

Pause.

TRISH
	You know, Joy, I've never told you
	this before, but now that we're
	older, and I feel so bonded to you,
	wellthe truth is  oh, I know this
	sounds horrible, but I feel I have to
	be fully open with you, get beyond
	all the old barriers, sibling nonsense 
	well, the truth is I always thought
	you would never amount to much. That
	you'd end up alone, without a career
	or anything. Really, it's what we all
	thought. Mom, Dad, Heleneveryone
	I'd always prayed we'd all be wrong,
	but you had always seemed todoomed
	to failure. But now I see, it's not true.
	There is a glimmer of hope for you
	after all. Oh, I know I'm repeating
	myself, but, oh
(tears well up)
	I'm so happy for you


13.	EXT.  PARK - DAY.						13.

It is sunny and warm.  Couples straight and gay walk hand in
hand, families picnic, beautiful people sunbathe.

BILL observes the pleasant tranquillity from atop a hill.
Suddenly he pulls out a machine gun and starts shooting at
everyone.

Bloodshed everywhere.  Then silence.

VOICE
	And how is this different?


14.	INT.  PSYCHIATRIST'S OFFICE - DAY.			14.

BILL sits opposed his PSYCHIATRIST, to whom the VOICE
belongs.

BILL
	I don't kill myself at the end.

PSYCHIATRIST
	Do you see this as something positive?

BILL
	Gee, I don't know.

PSYCHIATRIST
	How do you feel at the end?

BILL
	Much better. I wake up happy.
	Feeling good. But then I get very
	depressed because I'm living in reality.

PSYCHIATRIST
	And you wouldn't kill people
	in real life.

BILL
	No. I don't think so.

PSYCHIATRIST
	You don't sound so certain.

BILL
	I'm thinking about my patients.

PSYCHIATRIST
	What about them?

BILL
	My patients are ugly. Their problems
	are trite. Each one thinks he is
	unique. On a professional level they
	bore me. On a personal level I have
	no sympathy. They deserve what they get.

PSYCHIATRIST
	And what about your family?

BILL
	Trish is good to me.

PSYCHIATRIST
	But still no sex?

BILL
	No. But she's not too interested,
	either. So really there's no problem
	there, when you think about it,
	on a certain level.


15.	EXT.  CAR - DAY.						15.

BILL is driving along.


16.	EXT.  PARK - DAY.						16.

Reminiscent of BILL'S dream: schoolchildren are playing,
teachers supervising.  A laborer is eating lunch with a
co-worker.  A little boy is sitting alone in the shade of a
tree.

BILL pulls up to the side of the field and observes from his
parking space.

He gets back in his car.


17.	INT.  BILL'S CAR - DAY.					17.

BILL is at the wheel again, a little tense.


18.	EXT.  MINI-MALL - DAY.					18.

BILL pulls into the lot.  He walks into the 7-11.


19.	INT.  7-11 - DAY.						19.

BILL picks up a Boy's Life, pays for it.


20.	EXT.  MINI-MALL - DAY.					20.

BILL gets into the back seat of his car and sets to
masturbating.

SHOPPERS walk by with shopping carts, little children,
oblivious to the activity inside Bill's car.

Finally, BILL gets out of his car, tucks in his shirt,
tosses the scrunched-up magazine into a dumpster, returns to
his car and pulls out.


21.	INT.  BILL'S KITCHEN - EVENING.			21.

BILL comes home as Trish finishes preparing the dinner
table.  He gives her a peck on the cheek.  Their kids are
eating in the adjacent TV Room.

TRISH
	So how was work today, Hon?

BILL
	Oh, fine.

KOOKI sniffs BILL'S pants, excited.

TRISH
	Kooki, no!

BILL
	Down, Kooki!

KOOKI calms down somewhat.

BILLY ENTERS, opens the refrigerator, pours himself a soda.
He looks dejected.

BILL
	Hey, Billy! What's going on?

BILLY
	Nothing.

TRISH
	He's
(making quotation marks
with her fingers)
	"depressed."

BILL
	Is something the matter?

BILLY
	I don't wanna talk about it.

And he leaves for the TV room again.

TRISH
	Ignore him. He's just doing it for
	attention. He thinks you'll be
	impressed. As if. So anyway
	Joy came by today.

BILL
	How's she doing?

TRISH
	Oh, God, I dunno, and frankly
	I'm concerned. I mean, she's not
	like me. She doesn't "have it all."
	She pretends to be happy, but
	I can see right through her:
	she's miserable.

BILL
	Why do you think that is?

TRISH
	To be frank, I think she's lazy.
	She's not a go-getter, like me or
	Helen.  And she's so picky. I gave
	Damien Ross her phone number, for
	what it's worth, and Joy sounded
	interested, naturally, butI dunno.
	I'm afraid to have to say it, but
	truly it's what I believe: she'll
	always be alone.

BILL
	We're all alone.

TRISH
	Oh, Bill. Sometimes I wonder how any
	of your patients can talk to you.

BILL
	Sometimes I wonder if they'll ever
	stop. I should tape some for you.

TRISH
	Would you? Would you really?
	So that I could listen, too?

BILL
	No.

TRISH
	You're such a tease.
	You know I wouldn't tell anyone.

BILL
	I know. 'Cause you're so secretive.

TRISH
	Well, maybe not as secretive as you.

BILL
	What secret would you like me to
	tell you?

IRISH puts her arms around BILL.

TRISH
(whispers coyly)
	Like how come no matter how much
	you treat me like shit,
	I can't help loving you even more?


22.	INT.  BILL'S BEDROOM - LATER.			22.

While TRISH puts CHLOE and TIMMY to bed, BILLY comes and
sits beside BILL on his bed.

BILLY
	Dad?

BILL
	Yes, Billy?

BILLY
	What does come mean?

BILL
	Come?

BILLY
	You know

BILL
	Well, you know how sometimes your
	penis gets erectwell, sometimes
	it gets so excited that a sticky
	milky substance shoots out.

BILLY
	Dickwad?

BILL
	Yes, only come can be used as a
	verb as well.
(a beat)
	Billy?

BILLY
	Yeah?

BILL
	Have you ever come?

BILLY
	Yeah

BILL
	Now Billy, it's alright if you haven't.

BILLY
	Well, I have

BILL
	Billy

BILLY
	But everyone else in class had and
	I want to come, too!

BILLY starts crying.

BILL
	Awn, now, it's okay, it's okay.
	Have you tried playing with yourself?

BILLY
	You mean

BILL
	With your penis.

BILLY
	A little.

BILL
	How did it feel?

BILLY
	I dunno. I don't know what to do.

BILL
	Do you want me toshow you?

BILLY
	No! No! I'm not normal!

BILLY buries his head in BILL'S lap.

BILL
	Aw, Billy. Don't worry.  You're normal.
	You'll come. One day. You'll see.


23.	INT.  JOY'S PLACE - DAY.				23.

JOY is preparing to cook a steak.  She is wearing rubber
globes.  HELEN sits with a coffee mug at the kitchen table.

HELEN
	Y'know, people were always putting
	New Jersey down. None of my friends
	can believe I live here. But that's
	because they don't get it:
	I'm living in a state of irony.

JOY
	Are you sure you don't wanna
	stay and have dinner with me?

HELEN
	I can't. I'm giving another reading/
	book-signing over at Barnes & Noble,
	and then Jamal is taking me out 
	although I promised FabiachoUch.
	Everybody wants me

The phone rings.

HELEN
	That's it, I'm going.

JOY
	Wait!

JOY picks up the phone.

JOY
	Hello?

VOICE
	Hi! How are you?

JOY
	Is this Damien?

VOICE
	Yeah! So, uh, how are you doing?

JOY
	Oh, fine. Could you hold a second?
	Helen?

HELEN is almost out the door.

HELEN
	See ya!

JOY
	Thanks for stopping by!

HELEN leaves.

JOY
(into phone)
	Sorry. That was my sister leaving.

VOICE
	Oh. Yeahumyeah

Pause.

JOY
	So, um, Trish told me you might
	be calling.

VOICE
	Yeah, well

JOY
	Oh, I know how weird these things
	can be, but I've always had such faith
	in Trish's judgment that I thought
	why not. It's not like I've got some
	huge social life. I mean, I do have a
	social life. It's just not huge.

VOICE
	Same here.

JOY
	Oh, really? That's so nice to hear.
	Most people seem so confident

VOICE
	Yeah

JOY
	Or, well, you know
	They're just real jerks.

VOICE
	Yeahuh What are you doing?

JOY
	Oh, I'm sorry, I'm just trying to
	thaw this steakbut it's so hard
	and I'm sorry.

VOICE
	Oh, no. No. Don't stop. Not because of me.

JOY
	Oh, but I feel I'm being so rude.

VOICE
	No, no. Not at all.

JOY
	Thanks.

VOICE
	Soum Are you alone now?

JOY
	Oh, yeah. Don't worry. Nobody's
	listening in. God, you're just like me.

VOICE
	What are you wearing?

JOY
	You mean, when we go out?
	Well, where do you want to go?
	I'm pretty easy to please.
	I hate getting all dressed up.


VOICE
	What are you wearing now?

JOY
	Oh, just a pair of jeans. Why?

VOICE
	Are they tight?

JOY
	Not too tight. They fit okay.
	But why do you?

VOICE
	I don't mean the jeans.
	I mean underneath. What are you
	wearing underneath? Check.

JOY
(starts looking inside her jeans)
	Underneath? Well, but Damien,
	underneath is just
(pauses, suddenly alarmed)
	This isn't Damienis it?

VOICE
	Are you getting wet?
	Is your pussy all?

JOY hangs up.


24.	INT.  ALLEN'S BEDROOM - THAT MOMENT.		24.

VOICES of neighborhood children can be heard from outside
the window.

ALLEN (the man behind the VOICE that was just on the phone
with JOY) rises to the sitting position and puts a bookmark
in the phonebook.

He notices the mess he made on the wallpaper.  The stain
looks permanent.  He covers it up with a postcard.  (There
are many other postcards already thumbtacked to the wall.)

The doorbell rings.

ALLEN rises.

ALLEN
	Who is it?

VOICES
	Your neighbor Kristina.

ALLEN opens the door, sees KRISTINA.  She is very big and
very overweight.

ALLEN
	Hey, what's up?

KRISTINA
	Did you hear what happened to Pedro?

ALLEN
	Pedro?

KRISTINA
	You know, the night doorman?

ALLEN
	Oh, yeah. What?

KRISTINA
	He was found bludgeoned to death
	in his apartment this morning.

ALLEN
	Uch.

KRISTINA
	Yeah. And supposedly his penis
	is missing.

ALLEN
	Uugh.

KRISTINA
	Yeah, well, Carla in 2B is collecting
	money for the funeral, if you feel
	like it. Apparently he had no family,
	no known friendsGee, if I'da know
	I mean, I did always say hi, I think.

ALLEN
	Me too, if it's the guy I'm thinking of.

Pause.

KRISTINA
	By the way, um, I've got an extra
	ticket to the play-offs tonight.
	Wanna come with me?

ALLEN
	Nah. Thanks. I got too much work.

KRISTINA
	Oh.
(a beat)
	Well, anyway, I just thought I'd
	tell you about Pedro.

ALLEN
	Thanks.

KRISTINA
	See ya.

ALLEN
	Yeah.

And he closes the door.


25.	INT.  HALLWAY - THAT MOMENT.				25.

KRISTINA stands outside ALLEN'S door and stares at it
dejectedly.  Finally, tearing up the ticket, she walks back
to her apartment, shutting the door behind her.


26.	EXT.  FLORIDA/ARIZONA 					26.
CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX - DAY.

It is bright and sunny.


27.	INT.  CONDO - DAY.						27.

LENNY and MONA, in their 60s, sit at the kitchen table.
There are dishes shattered on the floor.

MONA
	Oh, I feel better now.

LENNY
	Good.
(a beat)
	I'm gonna clean up.

Pause.

MONA
	I'm gonna lie down.

MONA rises, walks to her bedroom, lies down.

LENNY clears the table.

LENNY
	I'm turning on the dishwasher!

And LENNY starts vacuuming up the debris on the floor.

MONA goes to the bathroom, opens the medicine cabinet.

MONA
(calling, faux calm)
	Where's my valium?!

LENNY
	What?!

MONA
	Nevermind!
(to herself)
	Fucking asshole.

She has found a good enough valium substitute, but there are
only two pills left in the bottle.  She swallows them with a
glass of water, lies down again.

The phone rings.

MONA
(to herself)
	You answer it, Bastard.

LENNY (O.S.)
	It's Trish!

MONA picks up.

MONA
	Hi, Trish!

TRISH (V.O.)
	Hi, Mom. How are you?

MONA
	Oh, I'm fine. How are you?

TRISH (V.O.)
	Fine

MONA
	Good.

TRISH (V.O.)
	Did you watch Leno last night? Mom?

Pause.

MONA
(she bursts into tears)
	He's leaving me!
Your father's leaving me!

TRISH (V.O.)
	Mom, what are you talking about?

MONA
	Can you keep this secret? Top secret?

TRISH (V.O.)
	Yes, yes, of course, Mom, but 

MONA
	He sayshe doesn't love me anymore.

TRISH (V.O.)
	Mom, I'm sure he doesn't mean it.

MONA
	Well, he does fucking mean it!
	He wants a divorce!

TRISH (V.O.)
	He said the word divorce?

MONA
	You don't believe me? Talk to him!
(calling)
	Lenny!

LENNY
	Yeah?!

MONA
	It's Trish! She wants to talk to you!

LENNY
(on phone)
	Yeah, Trish?

TRISH (V.O.)
	Is it true what Mom said?

LENNY
	What?

TRISH (V.O.)
	You want a divorce?

LENNY
	I never used that word.
(calling)
Mona! What are you telling the kids?

MONA comes wobbling into the room.

LENNY
(to TRISH)
	She'll call you back.
(hanging up; to MONA)
	Did I use the word divorce?

MONA
	You said you didn't want to
	live with me anymore!

LENNY
	Answer my question: did I use
	the word divorce?

MONA
	You said you didn't love me anymore!

LENNY
	Did I say divorce?!

MONA
	No.

LENNY
	Good. I just want that much clear.
	Now sit down now next to me.

Pause.  The phone rings.

MONA
	Leave it. The machine'll get it.
	It's probably Joy.

LENNY
	What if it's Helen?

JOY
(on the machine)
	Hi, Mom. Hi, Dad. It's Joy.
	Just called to say hi, but I guess
	you're out having a good time.
	Oh, well. I guess I'll talk to you
	tomorrow then. Okay. Bye.

Pause.

MONA
	Lenny?

LENNY
	Yeah?

MONA
	Why?

LENNY
	I dunno. I just want to be alone.

MONA
	But I can let you be alone more,
	if that's what you want.

LENNY
	Look: Things change People change
	Whatever. I want out.

Pause.

MONA
	It's Diane.

LENNY
	Diane?

MONA
	You're in love with Diane Freed.

LENNY
	Get outta here.

MONA
	Well, you're in love with someone.
	Someone younger, probably.

LENNY
	Wrong.

MONA
	Lenny, it's okay. I'm not dumb.
	These things happen. I'll get over it.
	I just wish you had done this twenty
	years ago. Now I'll have to get
	another fucking face-lift.

Pause.

LENNY
	I'm in love with no one else.

MONA
	No one?

LENNY
	No one.

MONA
	Okay, then.
(a beat)
	Schmuck.


28.	INT.  PHONE SALES OFFICE - DAY.			28.

The CAMERA DOLLIES across a maze of carrels, finally landing
on JOY, at work as a telephone sales operator.

JOY
(on phone)
	Hi!  Is this Mrs. Mammangakis?
	Hi!  I'm calling from UniCard
	of America because you've been
	such a good customer that.

JOY dials the number of the next name on the list, and the
next.  Everyone hangs up on her.  Until:


29.	INT.  ALLEN'S PLACE - DAY.				29.

ALLEN is lying in bed.  The phone rings.  He picks it up.

ALLEN
	Hello?

JOY
	Hello, is this Mr. Mellencamp?

ALLEN
	Yes.

JOY
	Hi! I'm calling from UniCard of
	America because you've been
	such a good.

ALLEN
	Do I know you?

JOY
	I'm sorry, I don't think so.
	But perhaps you're familiar with out.

ALLEN hangs up.  But then, for a moment, he ponders the
familiarity of her voice.

Ditto JOY.  She decides to dial him again.  ALLEN answers,
but says nothing.  They both hang on, listening to each
other's silence, then hang up.


30.	EXT.  JOY'S PLACE - EVENING.				30.

JOY can be heard singing and playing her guitar.


31.	INT.  JOY'S PLACE - EVENING.				31.

JOY, sitting on her bed, finishes her melancholy Joni
Mitchell-like song.  A display of macrame objects d'art
adorns the wall.

The phone rings.  She answers it.

JOY
	Hello?

BERMAN (V.O.)
	Hello. This is Detective Berman from
	the County Police Department. I'd
	like to speak with a Ms. Joy Jordan?

JOY
	This is she.


32.	INT.  STUART'S PLACE - EVENING.			32.

POLICEMEN, a CORONER, a SUPER, ETC. AL. Busy themselves
while STUART's body is being removed.  BERMAN holds Stuart's
suicide note ("Dear Joy, I can't live without you. Love,
Stuart.  P.S. The ashtray is yours.") in a baggie in his
hand.

BERMAN
	I'm sorry to disturb you,
	Ms. Jordan, but I'm afraid
	I have some bad news for you

FADE TO BLACK.


33.	EXT.  OFFICE BUILDING COMPLEX - DAY.		33.

A bright, cheerful day.  The parking lot is full.


34.	JOY'S OFFICE - DAY.					34.

JOY looks over at a corner desk where a woman is working the
phones and starts crying.  Her neighbor, NANCY, hearing the
sniffling, pauses in the midst of her work.

NANCY
	What's the matter, Joy?

JOY
	Stuart's dead!

NANCY
	Stuart?

JOY
	Yes!

Pause.

NANCY
	Who's Stuart?

JOY
	You know, the guy who used to
	sit over at the corner there?

NANCY
	You mean where Pam is sitting?

JOY
	Yes.

NANCY
	Was he kind of tall and
	a little hunched?

JOY
	No, he waswellshortish, squarish

NANCY
	Oh, Joy. I'm not sure.
	Did he work here long?

NANCY calls across to another neighbor, KAY.

NANCY
	Kay, do you remember a guy
	named Stuart who used to work here
	over where Pam is now?

KAY
	No. Why? What happened?

NANCY
	He died.

KAY
	Huh. Now which one was he?

NANCY
	I'm not sure. May be Tom knows. Tom?

Co-worker TOM, who has been listening in, swivels over from
the other side.

TOM
	Sorry, Nancy, I don't. I mean,
	I do vaguely remember some guy
	who worked over there  I think
	but I'm not really sure.

KAY
	How did he die anyway?

NANCY
	Yeah, how did he die, Joy?

JOY's phone rings.  She picks up.

JOY
	Sales, can I help you?

VOICE
	Is this Joy Jordan?

JOY
	Yes.

VOICE
	This is Stuart's mother.
(a beat)
	I hope you fucking rot in hell.

The VOICE hangs up.

TOM
	Hey, Joy. Was he kind of Latino-
	looking and a little acne-scarred?

NANCY
	Yeah, you know, like Edward James Olmos?

JOY
(a beat)
	Yeah. Sure. That's him.

TOM
	I knew it.

NANCY, KAY, and TOM continue discussing and disputing
STUART's identity.


35.	INT.  HAPPY'S RESTAURANT - DAY.			35.

HELEN and TRISH sit together.

HELEN
(picking at her food)
	Uch. I don't know why I suggested
	this place. Joy recommended it

TRISH
	Well, at least we're together.
	I never get to see you,
	you're so busy.

HELEN
	No, you're so busy.

TRISH
	No, you are

HELEN
	Well, I guess I am.

TRISH
	Me too.

HELEN
	In fact, if I have to do one more
	interview

TRISH
	I guess it's hard, all this success.

HELEN
	It's just I'm so tired ofof being
	admired all the time. All these men
	I mean, they're all beautiful,
	artistic minds, great sex, the whole
	packagebut hollow, you know what
	I mean? I feel nobody's really honest
	with me. Nobody wants me for me.

TRISH
	They're not family.

HELEN
	Oh, Trish. If only I had your
	husband, kids, carpool.

TRISH
	Well, I may "have it all," but
	sometimes I wonder what my life
	would have been like if I'd
	actually tried to write a novel.

HELEN
	Oh, I'm sure it would have been good.

TRISH
	Maybe I will write one.

HELEN
	Oh, you should Just try

Pause.

TRISH
	No, I don't need that kind of success.

HELEN
	Uch, listen to us. We who have
	everything while Joy
	What does she have?

TRISH
	You're right. And she's just getting older.

HELEN
	Last night she called  I was
	in bed with Vilmos  no, Huraki 
	and she was in tears. She told me
	she'd quit her job

TRISH
	Oh, butbut that's her lifeline!

HELEN
	She said she wanted to "change"
	her life. Do "good" work with
	the poor, the needy

TRISH
	I don't get it.

HELEN
	Don't even try. She understand
	she already is good.
	She doesn't need to do good.

TRISH
	And what about her music career?

HELEN
	I don't know, but don't hold your
	breath. Anyway, listen. This is all
	top secret. She doesn't want anyone
	to know.

TRISH
	Oh.
(a beat)
	But she told you.

HELEN
	She felt she could trust me.

TRISH
	'Cause I always thought I was
	someone she could confide in.

A BUSBOY comes by, refills their water glasses, leaves.

TRISH
	Did you speak to Mom?

HELEN
	You mean about the split-up?

TRISH
	Oh. I-I thought it was top secret.

HELEN
	Just for Joy. Sensitive Joy.
	Everyone else knows.

TRISH
	Oh.

A WAITER comes by.

WAITER
	Can I help you with anything else?

HELEN
	Oh, no thanks.

The WAITER leaves the check, clears the plates, goes off.
TRISH picks up the check, looks at it.

HELEN
	Thanks for lunch. I really
	enjoyed this.


36.	EXT.  PARK - DAY.						36.

A little league gave is in progress.  11-year-old JOHNNY is
at bat.  There is a hush.  Bases are loaded.  BILLY
encourages him from the sidelines

BILLY
	You can do it, Johnny!

JOE, JOHNNY's father and the team's coach, mutters to
himself, tense.

JOE
	Don't fuck up, Johnny.

BILL observes JOHNNY's TEAMMATES muttering to themselves.

TEAMMATE #1
	I can't believe he's up at bat now.

TEAMMATE #2
	I swear I'm not playing Little League
	next year if he's on the team.

RONALD FARBER, the biggest and perhaps dumbest of the
teammates, joins in.

RONALD
	Let's beat him up afterwards.

JOHNNY concentrates.  The pitcher throws the ball
andSTRIKE!

BILLY
	C'mon Johnny!

JOE
	My kid is a fucking spaz.

TEAMMATE #2
	Do we have to stay and watch this?

Strike two.

BILLY
	Concentrate, Johnny! You can do it!

JOE
	You hit the fucking ball or
	I'm gonna smash your fucking face in.

PARENT #1
(to BILL)
	You know, this really is unfair
	to the other kids.

Strike three.


37.	INT.  MCDONALD'S - DAY.					37.

While BILLY and JOHNNY play video games, BILL and JOE eat at
a table.

JOE
	Bill, I dunno. Maybe I should
	talk to you. You're a specialist
	in these things, aren't you?

BILL
	Well, I don't know. That depends

JOE
	Look, my son's a fag.
	I'm not blind to these things.

BILL
	How come you're so sure he'sgay?

JOE
	What, are you kidding?

BILL
	Well, it's just sometimesappearances
	can be deceiving. And besides. Even
	if you're right. There's not much
	you can do, is there?

Pause.

JOE
	What do you think would happen if
	I got him a professionalyou know

BILL
	A professional?

JOE
	Hooker. You know, the kind that
	can teach thingsfirst-timers,
	you knowbreak him in.

BILL
	But Joe, he's 11.

JOE
	You're right, you're right.
	It's too late. He iswhat he is.
	Forget I said anything.

BILL
	Maybe you ought to discuss it with Betty.

JOE
	I can't. I can't talk to her.

BILL
	Hmm. That's a problem.

JOE
	Things aren't too good between us

BILL
	Not too good.

JOE
	No.

Pause.

BILL
	Are you?

JOE
	No.
(a beat)
	She's a dyke.

BILLY and JOHNNY approach.

BILLY
	Dad, can Johnny sleep over tonight?

BILL
	Well, that's up to Joe here.

JOE
(pause)
	Sure. Whatever.

JOHNNY AND BILLY
	Yeah!!!

JOHNNY and BILLY hold each other as they jump for joy.

JOE
(to himself)
	Like girls.


38.	EXT.  BILL'S PLACE - NIGHT.				38.

The lights are on.  The TV is on.

The family can be heard laughing and playing some board
game.


39.	INT.  BILL'S PLACE - NIGHT.				39.

BILL is preparing hot fudge sundaes.  He mixes some powdered
drugs into the fudge before pouring it onto the ice cream.

He brings a tray loaded with bowls of sundaes into the TV
room.

BILL
	Come and get it!

TRISH
	Oh, Bill. You shouldn't have.

BILL
	Here, take. You only live once.

Everyone grabs a bowl, except JOHNNY.

BILL
	Aren't you having, Johnny?

JOHNNY
	No, thank you, Dr. Maplewood.

BILLY
	Johnny hates chocolate fudge.

BILL
	Well, is there something
	you'd like instead?

JOHNNY
	No, thank you.

BILL
	What about to drink?

TRISH
	Oh, leave him alone. He's fine.

BILL
	No, but there must be something

JOHNNY
	Do you have any grape Hi C?

BILL
	Do we, Trish?

TRISH
	I'm afraid not.

BILL
	I could go pick some up.

TRISH
	Bill, don't be silly. He doesn't
	need anything. It's late.

JOHNNY
	Do you have any tuna salad?

BILL
	Would you like a sandwich?

JOHNNY
	Yes, please.

BILL
	Coming right up!

TRISH
	I'm going to bed, Bill.

BILL
	I'll be there soon.

TRISH
	Look at that Timmy, can hardly
	keep his eyes open. Come on, Timmy.
(to BILLY and JOHNNY)
	You boys, don't stay up to late!

TRISH shuffles off with little CHLOE and TIMMY.

BILL returns to the kitchen, hastily fixes a tuna sandwich,
spiking it with gobs of his powder.

BILL brings the sandwich in to JOHNNY.  He finds BILLY
already fallen asleep.

BILL
	Here we are!

JOHNNY
	Thanks, Dr. Maplewood.

BILL
	What happened to Billy?

JOHNNY
	I don't know. I guess
	he just conked out.

JOHNNY is glued to the TV. He doesn't touch the tuna
sandwich.

BILL
	Aren't you going to eat the sandwich?

JOHNNY
	In a minute.

BILL
	Take your time.

BILL waits.

JOHNNY
	Dr. Maplewood, would it be
	alright if I ate this tomorrow?

BILL
(not losing his self-control)
	Well, sure, but I don't know if
	it's taste any good tomorrow.

JOHNNY examines the sandwich.  He turns back to the TV.
Just when all seems lost, however, he takes a bite.

BILL
	How is it?

JOHNNY
	Actually, it's really good.

BILL
	Enjoy it.

BILL then rises, checks in on TRISH, CHLOE, and TIMMY: they
are all sound asleep.

BILL pauses in the hallway to look at a family portrait.
Then he returns to the TV room.

BILL
(testing)
	Johnny? Johnny?

But JOHNNY too is now sound asleep.  BILL takes away the
unfinished tuna sandwich and plate and brings them into the
kitchen.  He dumps the tuna remains into the garbage, puts
the plate into the dishwasher, turns it on.

BILL lifts BILLY up and carries him off to bed.  He tucks
him in.

BILL returns to the TV room, where JOHNNY lies.  He places
him on the couch, then stands hovering over him.

The TV is left on.


40.	EXT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - MORNING.			40.

The gardener is mowing the lawn.  A postman drops off the
mail.  Little children play ball.


41. INT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - MORNING.			41.

TIMMY, BILLY, and JOHNNY are in the TV room watching TV.

TRISH snuggles in bed next to BILL.  They are very
kissy-kissy.

TRISH
	Oh, Honey. I feel so good now.

BILL
	Me too.

TRISH
	I haven't slept so well in so long.

BILL
	Me neither.

TRISH
	It's weird. I feel as if we Bill,
	did we? I mean, did you Did I?

BILL
	Yes.

Pause.

TRISH
	I don't remember

BILL
	That's okay. It doesn't matter.

TRISH
	It matters.

BILL
	Forget about it.

TRISH
	Okay.
(a beat)
	It's funny, 'cause I remember
	I was dreaming and you were there
	and Billyand Timmy and Chloe
	and Johnny Grasso

BILL
	Oh?

TRISH
	I can't really remember anything more,
	exceptI don't know.  Oh, Bill.
	Please don't get mad at me. I know
	you hate it when I ask, but
	Do you still?

BILL
	Oh.

TRISH
	Oh.

Pause.

BILL
	Yes. Very very much.

TRISH
	Oh, Bill, and I do too!
	I'm sorry I need to keep being
	reminded, it's just

BILL
	I know.

TRISH
	And we haven't been

BILL
	I know. And it's my fault.

TRISH
	My fault.

BILL
	Trish, I.

TRISH
	I know.

BILL
	No, II.

Just when things get hot and heavy, CHLOE starts screaming
o.s.

Pause.

TRISH
(kisses him)
	Later.

She rises and leaves the room.


42.	INT.  BILL'S KITCHEN - DAY.				42.

JOHNNY sits at the table with the funnies.  BILL is sipping
coffee, reading the paper.

TIMMY runs around in the b.g.

BILL
	Where's Billy?

JOHNNY
	Watching TV.

BILL
	How come you're not playing together?

JOHNNY
	I don't know. Billy just said
	he didn't feel like it.
(a beat)
	Dr. Maplewood?

BILL
	Yes?

JOHNNY
	Can you drive me home now?

BILL
	Well, sure, butare you
	having a good time?

JOHNNY
	I'm not feeling so well.

BILL
	What's the matter?

JOHNNY
	I don't know. I think.

He throws up on the funnies.


43.	INT.  CAR - DAY.						43.

BILL is driving JOHNNY home.

JOHNNY
	Dr. Maplewood?

BILL
	Yes, Johnny?

JOHNNY
	I'm sorry I threw up.

BILL
	Don't worry about it.

JOHNNY
	'Cause I really had a good time.

BILL
	Good. Billy did too. We all did.

BILL puts his arm around him affectionately.  JOHNNY, very
sleepy, leans in close against him.

JOHNNY
	Dr. Maplewood?

BILL
	Yes, Johnny?

JOHNNY
	You're so cool.

And he falls asleep, his head sinking into BILL'S lap.

A string of saliva drips from JOHNNY's lips onto BILL's
pants.


44.	EXT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - NIGHT.			44.

The lights are on.  The TV is on.


45.	INT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - TV ROOM - LATER.	45.

BILLY joins BILL on the sofa.  KOOKI is humping a chair
across from them.

BILLY
	Dad?

BILL
	Yes, Billy?

BILLY
	I was kind of wondering.

BILL
	Yeah?

Pause.

BILLY
	Nothing.

Pause.

BILL
	Did you have a good time with Johnny?

BILLY
	It was okay. He's a little girlish though.

BILL
	Oh. Yeah.

Pause.

BILLY
	Dad. Do you know how many
	inches your penis is?

Pause.

BILL
	I never measured.

BILLY
	Ronald Farber said his penis is
	twelve inches long. Do you
	think that's possible?

BILL
	What Ronald Farber doesn't know
	is that it's not length, but
	width that matters.

Pause.

BILLY
	Why?

BILL
	Things get a little moretense.

Pause.

BILLY
	What do you meantense?

Pause.

BILL
	Have you beenpracticing?

BILLY
	Yeah. But it's no use. Nothing comes.

BILL
	You have to be patient. Your friend
	Ronald Farber, I can assure you,
	is full of crap.

BILLY
	Yeah. I bet yours is
	a lot wider and longer.

Pause.

BILL
	Do you want me to measure?

BILLY
	Nah, that's okay.

BILLY smiles, leans affectionately against his father.


46.	INT.  ESL OFFICE - DAY.					46.

Through the glass door a group of newly-arrived immigrants
can be seen walking by.

SUPERVISOR looks JOY over.

SUPERVISOR
	You've come at a god time.
	The place is in turmoil now.
	Everyone's preparing to strike.

JOY
	W-why are they going to strike?

SUPERVISOR
	I can't tell you the half of it:
	the deceit, the corruption. The union
	wants to close down the school.
	They don't care about these poor
	immigrants. It's heartbreaking.
	Now I believe in unions, I'm sensitive
	to their needs, I cried at "The Grapes
	of Wrath", I sing to Woody Guthrie.
	But that was another time, another
	place. Today unions are just a new
	kind of corporation. It's tragic, but
	believe me, those teachers making
	sacrifices for the union, well, the
	union's not going to make any
	sacrifices for them. Those union
	leaders, they go home with pay-checks,
	the teachers end up with nothing.
	Now we need people who can be dedicated,
	who aren't in it just for the money.
	Because this job takes courage.
	Do you know what some of these
	refugees have endured? Concentration
	camps. And now their dream of coming
	to America is realized, and this
	union doesn't care. It's all about
	greed. Selfishness. Now Joy, can I
	count on you?

JOY
	O-of courseI want to do the right,
	um, thingI mean, I believe in, um,
	you knowbeing counted on

SUPERVISOR
	Do you know what these strikers are?
	Spoiled brats. Trust-funded artistes.
	They don't know the meaning of work,
	of giving But just remember, if you
	hear the word "benefits," don't listen.


47.	EXT.  ESL SCHOOL - DAY.					47.

PICKETERS march along the sidewalk. JOY approaches and
hesitates.

PICKETERS
(chanting)
	Don't cross the line!
	Don't cross the line!

JOY
	You know, there are some people
	in real need in there.

PICKETER #1
	Fucking management is in there.

JOY
	But what about the refugees?

PICKETER #2
	What about my benefits?

JOY
	I'm sorry. I think you're
	making a terrible mistake.

As she crosses the picket line they shout epithets at her.
Someone throws an egg at her.  It cracks against her head.
She runs inside.


48.	INT.  ELEVATOR - DAY.					48.

Strangers look askance at JOY.  When the elevator arrives at
her floor she gets out, relieved.


49.	INT.  ESL SCHOOL TEACHERS LOUNGE - DAY.	49.

Administrators welcome JOY, handing out general information.
The air is festive.

JOY finds the other TEACHERS cleaning tomatoes and egg off
their clothes.  RHONDA, a teacher, pulls her aside towards
the window from which the strikers can be seen.

RHONDA
	It's so sad. I mean, it really is
	pathetic. Such losers. Really,
	I feel sorry for them.

There is a slight commotion across the room.  TEACHER #1 is
upset, crying a little.  TEACHER #2 comforts her.

TEACHER #1
	I'm sorry It's nothing Sorry

TEACHER #2
	It's okay.

TEACHER #1
	It's justwell

TEACHER #2
	What is it? What happened?

TEACHER #1
	They called me a scab.

TEACHER #2
	You're not a scab.
	You're a strike-breaker.

The bell rings.


50.	INT.  CLASSROOM - DAY.					50.

JOY enters.  The STUDENTS do not have welcoming faces.

JOY
	Good morning. My name is Joy Jordan.

She writes her name on the blackboard.

JOY
	I am your new teacher. Now.

JOY is about to do roll-call when:

STUDENT #1

	You are scab.

STUDENT #2
	Where Marsha?

JOY
	Marsha? Well, Marshaer

STUDENT #3
	We want Marsha.

The STUDENTS start changing, "We want Marsha!"  One student,
however, does not join in.  He shouts at his classmates:

BORIS
(in Russian)
	Quiet!

They listen to him.

BORIS
(to JOY)
	Please.

JOY
	I'm not a scab.
	I'm a strike-breaker.


51.	INT.  HELEN'S PLACE - DAY.				51.

Intensity grips HELEN as she works on a poem at her desk.
She rises, as if in pain, and starts pacing.  Strange sounds
emanate from her mouth.  She pounds a fist against her head.
Finally she leaps into bed, thrashing about as if possessed.

HELEN
	I'm no good! I'm no good!
	I am nothing! Nothing! Zero!

The telephone rings.

HELEN
	Hello?


52.	INT.  ALLEN'S OFFICE - DAY.				52.

ALLEN is on the other end of the line.  His breathing is
heavy, low, constrained.  He is sweating.

HELEN (V.O.)
	Hello?

ALLEN
(voice disguised)
	I know who you are and you are nothing.
	You think you are fucking something,
	but you are fucking nothing.  You are
	empty.  You are zero.  You are a black
	hole, and I am going to fuck you so bad
	you're gonna be coming out of your ears.

Pause.

HELEN (V.O.)
	Richard?

ALLEN hangs up.


53.	INT.  HELEN'S PLACE - DAY.				53.

HELEN presses *69.

CUT BACK AND FORTH between HELEN and ALLEN.

ALLEN picks up.

ALLEN
	Data Resources.

HELEN
	Who are you?

ALLEN hangs up.  He is shaking, sweating profusely.

A pretty young SECRETARY walks by outside his glass door and
smiles.  He smiles back, weakly.

The phone rings again.  ALLEN resists answering it until he
hears his answering service pick up.

ALLEN
	What do you want?

Pause.

HELEN
	I want you to fuck me.

Pause.

ALLEN
	IumI don't think I can do that
	I meanI don't think I can do that.
(a beat; a CO-WORKER
is approaching)
	I gotta go.

HELEN
	Call me tomorrow.

ALLEN
	Okay.

ALLEN hangs up.  The CO-WORKER appears.

CO-WORKER
	Hey, you see the play-offs last night?

ALLEN
(smiling/joking)
	Yeah, pretty good! Pretty good!


54.	EXT.  LIQUOR STORE - EVENING.			54.

ALLEN hurries inside.


55.	INT.  LIQUOR STORE - EVENING.			55.

ALLEN buys some whiskey.


56.	EXT.  HELEN AND ALLEN'S APT. COMPLEX -		56.
EVENING.

ALLEN bumps slightly over the curb as he pulls into the
parking lot.


57.	INT.  HELEN AND ALLEN'S APT. COMPLEX -		57.
LOBBY - EVENING.

ALLEN goes to the elevator, sees HELEN waiting.  As usual,
she pays him no attention.  ALLEN smiles.

ALLEN
	How's it going?

HELEN
	Okay.

The elevator arrives and they step inside.


58.	INT.  ELEVATOR - EVENING.				58.

HELEN and ALLEN stand and say nothing during the ride, like
before.


59.	INT.  HALLWAY - EVENING.				59.

The elevator doors open and HELEN and ALLEN come out,
walking their separate ways.

ALLEN
	See ya.

HELEN
	Yeah.

KRISTINA'S POV of ALLEN unlocking and entering his
apartment.  The view is distorted.

CLOSE ON KRISTINA in her apartment, staring through the
peephole.  She takes her eyes away and covers them with her
hand, overcome.


60.	EXT.  HELEN AND ALLEN'S APT. COMPLEX -		60.
HELEN'S PLACE - LATER.

HELEN and her lover JAMAL's silhouettes can be seen going at
it next door to ALLEN.


61.	INT.  ALLEN'S PLACE - THAT MOMENT.		61.

ALLEN, surrounded by a couple of empty liquor bottles, is
studying a Playboy centerfold.  Faint but distinct sounds of
HELEN making love with someone.

The door buzzes.  He puts down the magazine, rises
unsteadily, and walks to the door.

ALLEN
	Who is it?

KRISTINA (O.S.)
	It's me. Kristina.

ALLEN opens the door.

KRISTINA
	Hey, how's it going?

ALLEN
	Okay.

KRISTINA
	I got some more info on Pedro.

ALLEN
	Pedro?

KRISTINA
	You knowthe, uh.

ALLEN
	Oh, yeah. What?

KRISTINA
	Well, um
(sees ALLEN tottering)
	Say, uh, are you alright?

ALLEN
	No.

KRISTINA
	Here.

KRISTINA helps ALLEN back inside, sets him down on his bed.

ALLEN
	Pussy Need pussy

ALLEN passes out.

KRISTINA goes to the door and locks it.  She turns out the
light.  Then she sits down and just stares at ALLEN,
pondering his face and body.

Finally, KRISTINA bends down and unbuttons his top a little.
She leans her head against ALLEN, half lying down beside
him.

Suddenly ALLEN awakens, rises, and rushes off to the
bathroom.  He throws up o.s.  Pause.  When he reappears he
sees KRISTINA standing by the bed.

ALLEN
	What the fuck are you doing here?

KRISTINA is too petrified to speak.

ALLEN
	Get out!

KRISTINA leaves.


62.	EXT.  FLORIDA/ARIZONA REAL ESTATE 		62.
OFFICE -	DAY.

Sunny.  Well-tended landscaping.  Attractive parking lot.


63.	INT.  FLORIDA/ARIZONA REAL ESTATE			63.
OFFICE - DAY.

MONA is sitting in the waiting room when, ANN, a young and
comely broker, appears.

ANN
	Hi. Ann Chambeau.

MONA
	Mona Jordan.

ANN
	Wonderful.
(shaking hands with MONA.)
	Come this way. I'm sorry to have
	kept you waiting so long.

ANN escorts MONA to her office.  They sit down.

ANN
	Can I get you some tea? coffee?

MONA
	No, thank you.

ANN
	Okay. Now then. How can I help you?

MONA
	You said there might be something
	available over in Elysian Fields?

ANN
	Actually, there are several places
	we can see there. But first I need
	a little information.
(starts typing into her computer.)
	Now, you're looking for a one?
	two? three-bedroom?

MONA
	Three.

ANN
	Wonderful. Is this then for you
	and your husband?

MONA
	No.

ANN
	Just for yourself then?

MONA
	Yes.

ANN
	No children?

MONA
	My children are grown.

ANN
	No pets?

MONA
	No.

ANN
	So really just you alone then
	all by yourself?

MONA
	Yes.

ANN
	Wonderful.

ANN resumes interfacing with the computer.

Suddenly MONA starts crying. Soon ANN looks up from her
terminal.

ANN
	Mrs. Jordan? Is something the matter?

MONA nods yes and no.  Finally:

MONA
	My husband is leaving me.

ANN
	Oh, I'm so sorry.

ANN reaches her hand out in a vague display of support and
affection.

ANN
	You know, we have a lot of divorcees
	in Phase IV. Would you like to see
	something there, perhaps a bit smaller?

MONA
	Who said I was getting divorced?


64.	EXT.  ELYSIAN FIELDS - DAY.				64.

ANN drives MONA through this scenic luxury village.  They
pause at a security checkpoint before looking for a spot in
the parking lot.

Easy Listening or Classical Lite is on the car radio.

ANN (V.O.)
	You know, I'm a divorcee.

MONA (V.O.)
	Oh?

ANN (V.O.)
	I live in Phase IV.


65.	INT.  ANN'S CAR - DAY.					65.

MONA turns to ANNE as she pulls into a spot.

MONA
	I am so sorry.

ANN
	Mrs. Jordan?

MONA
	Mona.

ANN
	Mona. That's a beautiful name.

MONA
	Erthank you.

ANN
	How long were you married?

MONA
	Forty years.

Pause.

ANN
	You know, Mona, I think we have a lot
	in common. More than you realize. See,
	I know what you're going through.
	I've been there. But I'd like to share
	a little secret with you: Divorce was
	the best thing that ever happened to me.

ANNE reaches out and this time touches MONA, gives her a
squeeze.

ANN
	Really.


66.	INT.  CONDO LOBBY - DAY.				66.

ANN and MONA walk across the expensively decorated space.
It is empty except for an OLD LADY with a walker tottering
by.

ANN
(whispering discreetly)
	Don't worry. She's the exception to
	the rule. Most everyone here is
	much more youthful.


67.	INT.  CONDO HALLWAY - DAY.				67.

ANN leads MONA towards the door of the place for sale.  They
pass	by a vase of flowers resting in an offset little
alcove.

While ANN searches for the right set of keys, a MAID
approaches with fresh flowers and a plastic garbage bag.
She dumps the old flowers in the bag and replaces them with
new ones.

ANN
	See how they change the flowers
	every day. They don't wait for
	things to go bad and rot here.


68.	INT.  CONDO - DAY.						68.

ANN stands to the side while MONA wanders around.  The place
is bright and sunny.  A lot of mirrors and glass

In each room she enters MONA sees her reflection.

ANN
	It was finished just a year and a half
	ago and they've really hardly spent
	any time here. Supposedly the third
	bathroom's never even been used.
	But I've flushed it, so I know it works.

MONA stands by the windows, looking out.

ANN
	The views are spectacular, of course.
	But what's great is you can see
	the whole world and at the same time
	feel entirely alone. It's kind of a
	double bonus: you get the solitude
	you need for reflection and
	soul-searching and the thrill of
	being "top of the heap."

MONA looks at a portrait of a couple hanging in the foyer.
The husband has been torn out of it, just as he has been
from all the other photographs lying around.

ANN
	Now they're asking 800. But I know
	I can definitely get it down to 650.
	I know this couple. They're also in
	the middle of The Big D. He needs to
	liquidate fast.

Pause.

MONA
	I'll take it.

ANN
	Wonderful!


69.	EXT.  MONA AND LENNY'S APARTMENT			69.
COMPLEX - DAY.

LENNY lies on a chaise lounge, alone by the poolside.
DIANE, perhaps slightly younger than MONA, approaches.

DIANE
	Hi, Lenny. Mind if I join you?

LENNY
	No.

DIANE arranges herself in a chair beside him.

DIANE
	How's Mona?

LENNY
	Fine.

DIANE
	Inside on such a beautiful day?

LENNY
	I dunno.

DIANE
	Whadya mean you dunno?

LENNY
	I dunno.

DIANE
	Eh. Whatever.
(a beat.)
	So how are your girls doing?

LENNY
	Fine, I guess.

DIANE
	And the grandchildren?
	Coming to visit anytime soon?

LENNY
	I dunno.

Pause.

DIANE
	It's good to have a family together.
	A close familyI know. And you know
	how I know. 'Cause you know I know
	what it's like when things aren't
	together. When there is pain and
	loss andseparation. You know how
	I understand these things.
(a beat.)
	Lenny, I just think you should know;
	I heard about you and Mona.

LENNY
	What?

DIANE
	About yourgetting divorced.
	I'm very sorry.

LENNY
	We're not getting divorced.

DIANE
	Divorced, separated, whatever.
	It doesn't matter. You're alone now.

Two beautiful young women come to the pool and settle
themselves down opposite.

LENNY looks at them.  He closes his eyes and turns away.

DIANE
	Anyway, if you ever need someone
	to talk to, I want you to know.
	I'm here. And I care.


JOHNNY'S POV OF JOE: pulling out of the driveway.  Off to
work.

70.	INT.  JOHNNY'S HOME - MORNING.			70.

Pulling up his pajama pants, JOHNNY rises from the toilet
and turns to look at the bowl.

He leaves the bathroom without flushing the toilet.

He walks into his parents' bedroom.  BETTY is walking around
naked, getting dressed.

JOHNNY
	Mom?

BETTY
	Yeah?

JOHNNY
	There's blood in my BM.
(BETTY freezes.)
	Can I stay home from school today?


71.	INT.  JOHNNY'S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY.		71.

A DETECTIVE is gently interrogating JOHNNY.  BETTY sits
beside him.  JOE paces.  A NURSE adjusts things.  A DOCTOR
examines charts.  A POLICEMAN stands by the door.

DETECTIVE
	How are you feeling?

JOHNNY
	Okay.

DETECTIVE
	You sure?

JOHNNY
	Yeah. I feel fine. Maybe a little sore.
	But I'm ready to go back to school.

DETECTIVE
	Good! Now, Johnny. I have to
	ask you a few questions. Is that okay?

JOHNNY
	Yeah.

DETECTIVE
	Good. Now then. When did you first
	start feeling sick?

JOHNNY
	Yesterday.

DETECTIVE
	What happened?

JOHNNY
	I threw up at my friend's house.

BETTY
	Johnny spent the night there.
	I thought he just had a little virus.

DETECTIVE
	Did you eat anything unusual?

JOHNNY
	No. Just a tuna sandwich.

BETTY
	He loves tuna salad.

DETECTIVE
	I see. And when did you first
	notice the blood?

JOHNNY
	When I went to the bathroom this morning.

DETECTIVE
	Now tell me  and it is very
	important that you be honest

BETTY
	Don't be afraid, Baby.
	I'm right here with you.
	Daddy's not going to touch you.

DETECTIVE
	Is there anyone in the last
	day or two whohurt you?

JOHNNY
(a beat.)
	I don't think so.

DETECTIVE
	But someone didhurt you. No?

JOHNNY
(looks at JOE, then
back to the DETECTIVE)
	No. No one hurt me.

JOE
	Whadya mean no?!
	You've been fucking raped!!

A stunned silence.  JOE hangs his head.

JOE
	Sorry.

Pause.

BETTY
	Would you like me to fix you
	a tuna salad sandwich?

JOHNNY
	Okay.


72.	INT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - EVENING. 			72.

The family is at the dinner table.

TRISH
	More potatoes, Bill?

BILL
	Oh, no thanks. Mmm, I've got plenty.

TRISH
	The babysitter should be here
	any minute now.

BILL
	When does the PTA start?

TRISH
	We've still got half an hour.

BILL
(to BILLY)
	So how was school today?

BILLY
	Okay.

BILL
	Was Johnny there?

BILLY
	No.

TRISH
	I just hope none of you kids
	catch what he's got.

TIMMY tries amusing everyone by pretending to throw up his
potatoes.

TRISH
	Very funny, Timmy. And now you are
	excused and can go right to bed.

TIMMY
	But Mom!

TRISH
	Excuse me, Bill.

But then the phone rings.  TRISH lets go of TIMMY, answers
it.

TRISH
	Hello? Yes, is there a problem
	Tawny? Well, thank you for giving
	me so much notice Yes, well, I'm
	sorry, too. You should have
	thought of that earlier. Good-bye.

TRISH hangs up, returns to the table.

TRISH
	Bill, you're going to have to
	go yourself tonight.

BILL
	Isn't there anyone else you can get?

TRISH
	Not at this late hour.

TRISH sees the mess TIMMY has been making with his potatoes
and takes him away.

TRISH
(to TIMMY)
	Now you can come with me and take a bath.

TIMMY
	But I'm not finished!

TRISH and TIMMY continue to argue o.s.

BILLY
	Dad? If you and Mom died in a place crash,
	would it be alright f I took over?

BILL
	Well, probably one of your
	aunts would want to help out.

BILLY
	So you don't think I'm old enough
	to take care of myself and
	Timmy and Chloe.

BILL
	Well, no.

BILLY
	Ronald Farber's parents are away in
	Europe for a few days, and he's
	staying home alone without a babysitter.
	Why do I need a babysitter?

BILL
	Well, if you want to change Chloe's
	diapers

BILLY
	If I didn't have any little brother
	or sister, would you let me stay
	alone by myself for a few days?

BILL
	Your Mom and I are not Mr. and Mrs.
	Farber. We worry. So no.

BILLY
	What if I were 12?

BILL
	No.

BILLY
	13.

BILL
(a beat.)
	At 13, I think you'll be okay.

BILLY
	Can you promise?

BILL
	As long as you don't still
	look like you're 11.

BILLY
	I won't.

BILL
	Okay. At 13, then.


73.	EXT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - NIGHT.			73.

BILL backs out of the garage and comes to the end of the
driveway.


74.	INT.  BILL'S CAR - NIGHT.				74.

BILL looks tense as he pauses before the intersection.  He
picks up his car phone and dials information.

BILL
	Hello, in Roseland, please.
	I'm looking for the address of
	a resident. The name is Farber
	12 Angel Court? Thank you.

He hangs up.  A sigh.  Suddenly the phone rings.  He answers
it.

BILL
	Hello?


75.	INT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - NIGHT.			75.

TRISH is on the phone in the kitchen, cleaning up.  CHLOE in
the b.g.

TRISH
	Hi, hon. It's me. Listen, I forgot to
	ask if you could pick up a half-gallon
	of skim milk on your way back
	from the meeting.


BACK TO BILL

On his car phone.

BILL
	Sure thing.

TRISH (O.S.)
	Thanks! Love ya!

BILL
	Love ya!

He hangs up.  Pause.  He steps on thegas.


76.	EXT.  STREET - NIGHT.					76.

BILL's car moves on, joining the traffic.


77.	EXT.  SCHOOL - NIGHT.					77.

The parking lot is busy.  BILL's car approaches, pauses.

BILL'S POV of people parking and walking inside the school.
Chatter is audible.  Someone waves hello at him in passing.


78.	INT.  BILL'S CAR - NIGHT.				78.

BILL is suffering.  But finally he decides to move on.


79.	EXT.  STREET CORNER - NIGHT.				79.

A Street sign reads, ANGEL COURT.  Bill's car nears and
turns, slowly.


80.	EXT.  FARBER HOME - NIGHT.				80.

A modern expensive house of the sort that, in this
neighborhood, makes an architectural "statement."  The
number 12 is illuminated over the front door, as is a plaque
reading, The Farbers.

RONALD's silhouette can be faintly seen watching TV.

Bill's car pauses in front, then parks further down the
block.


80.	INT.  BILL'S CAR - NIGHT.				80.

BILL sits, numb.

He pulls out from his pocket a handkerchief and a dark
little unlabeled bottle filled with some liquid.

He looks at the car clock.

Finally, he opens his door.


81.	EXT.  FARBER HOME - NIGHT.				81.

BILL sneaks over to the side of the house and looks through
the window.


82.	INT.  FARBER HOME - NIGHT.				82.

RONALD is lounging on the sofa, still watching TV.  He
snacks on some chips.

BILL slides into the house through a kitchen window.

He tiptoes to a corner round which he can see the back of
RONALD's sofa, across the room.

The phone rings.  BILL freezes.  RONALD answers it.

RONALD
	Hello? Oh, hey, how's it going?
	No, Billy Maplewood's selling me his
	Five bucks, big deal Yeah, I know,
	but Grasshole can't stay absent
	forever. He'll probably show up
	tomorrow Yeah, he knows he's got it
	coming, he knows Oh, okay.  YeahBye.

BILL pours the bottled liquid onto the handkerchief.

He pounces on the victim.  Within moments, RONALD succumbs,
unaware of his assailant's identity.

BILL looks around: the TV is still on; otherwise, silence.

He looks at RONALD, looks away.

FADE TO BLACK.


83.	INT.  711 - NIGHT.					83.

BILL buys a half-gallon of milk.  He sees ALLEN riffling
through some porn at the magazine rack, but slips out of the
store unnoticed.


84.	EXT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - NIGHT.			84.

Bill's car pulls into the garage.


85.	INT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - NIGHT.			85.

BILL takes a half-gallon of milk out of a plastic bag and
puts it in the refrigerator.

TRISH (O.S.)
	Hon, is that you?

BILL
	Yeah.

TRISH (O.S.)
	You remember the milk?

BILL
	Yeah.

BILL walks by the TV room where TRISH is sitting watching TV
alone, like Ronald Farber: same position, same channel.

TRISH
	How was the meeting?

BILL
	Okay.

TRISH
	Bill, are you alright?

BILL
	I think I have to lie down.

TRISH
	Oh, shit. I hope you're not
	coming down with whatever that
	Johnny boy had.

BILL
	I don't think so.

BILL stops by BILLY's room.  Back issues of Boy's Life lie
piled on his desk.

BILLY is asleep.  A Playboy magazine sticks out from beneath
his pillow.

BILL goes over to BILLY and bends down.  He kisses him.

BILLY
	Dad?

BILL
	Yeah?

BILLy
	I almost came.

BILLY closes his eyes again.


86.	INT.  BILL AND TRISH'S BEDROOM -			86.
LATER THAT NIGHT.

Lights out.  BILL lies away, listening to TRISH's rhythmic
breathing.

BILL
	Trish? Trish?

TRISH
	Mmmyeah?

Pause.

BILL
	Do you love me?

TRISH
	Oh, Bill Yes.

BILL
	I mean, do you really love me?
	No matter what.

TRISH
	No matter whatwhat?

BILL
	No matter whatwhatever

TRISH
	Bill. You have me. And you always will.

She holds him closer.  A long pause.

BILL
	I'm sick

TRISH
	Aww Take some Tylenol.
	You'll feel better tomorrow.


87.	EXT.  STREET - DAY.					87.

JOY walks along, despondent.  Suddenly she hears a
Russian-accented voice calling her.  she looks around and
sees a cab pulled up beside her.  BORIS is inside.

BORIS
	Joy! Joy! I am Boris! Your student1

JOY
	Oh, hello, Boris. How are you?

BORIS
	I am fine. How are you?

JOY
	Oh, fine, fine.

Pause.

BORIS
	I not believe you.

JOY
	Really, Boris. I'm fine!

BORIS sees JOY is holding back tears. He gets out of the
cab.

BORIS
	Where you are go now?

JOY
	Oh, I'm just on my way home.

BORIS
	Tell me where do you live.
	I take you home.

JOY
	No, no, I couldn't.

BORIS
	Joy. Come in my car.
	I want give you ride.

JOY
	But I like walking. And the
	train is right nearby.

BORIS
	No. No train. I drive you home.

JOY
	But Boris. I live in New Jersey!

BORIS
	Good. I take you New Jersey.

JOY
	Maybe you don't understand.
	Boris. New Jersey is far.

BORIS
	Joy. You not understand. I am driver.
	My taxi. You come. You understand?
	You come.

Pause.

JOY
	Are you sure you know?

BORIS
	Boris knows. Come inside.

BORIS opens the door for JOY. She gets in. BORIS takes off.


88.	INT.  CAB - DAY.						88.

They sit in the bumper-to-bumper traffic.  JOY turns to
BORIS, turns away.  MUSIC plays on the radio.  Suddenly she
starts sobbing.

JOY
	I'm sorry.

BORIS
	Don't worry. Soon will be in New Jersey.


89.	EXT.  NEW JERSEY HIGHWAY - EVENING.		89.

The MUSIC on the radio swells as BORIS's taxi speeds along.
They pass a Welcome to New Jersey sign.


90.	INT.  CAB - EVENING.					90.

JOY changes radio stations.  They listen.  BORIS changes
back.


91.	EXT.  MCDONALD'S - EVENING.				91.

BORIS and JOY share a little meal along the highway.  The
MUSIC FADES.


92.	INT.  MCDONALD'S - EVENING. 				92.

BORIS and JOY sit in a booth.  They eat in silence.
Finally:

BORIS
	I love New Jersey.

Pause.

JOY
	Don't you miss Russia?

BORIS
	Fuck the cunt of Russia.

Pause.

JOY
	Well, I guess it's best to
	feel that way.


93.	EXT.  JOY'S PLACE - NIGHT.				93.

BORIS's cab arrives, parks in front.


94.	INT.  CAB - NIGHT.						94.

JOY turns to BORIS.

JOY
	Well, thank you very much.  That really
	was very nice of you. I'm sorry about
	beforeumit's very unlike me
(a beat.)
	So do you think you'll need any help
	finding your way back?

BORIS is silent.  He stares off at her place.

BORIS
	Why you not married?

JOY
	Oh, Boris. Life is different in America.
	Here a woman can  I know this is hard
	to understand  but a woman can fulfill
	her potential. There are opportunities
	here to do something, do goodreally
	improve the world.

Pause.

BORIS
	Do you like men?

JOY
(a beat.)
	Yesbutit's not so simple.

BORIS
	Are you lesbian?

JOY
(a beat.)
	No.

BORIS
	It is alright if you are lesbian.
	I like lesbians.

JOY
	I'm sorry, Boris. But I think
	this conversation has become
	a little strange for me.
	Thank you for the ride, andum

JOY extends her hand for a handshake, but BORIS kisses her.

JOY
	Oh. Wellumgood night then.
	I guess I'll see you.

But BORIS grabs her for another, longer kiss instead.
Pause.

JOY
	Would you like to come inside
	for a cup of tea?

BORIS
(a beat.)
	Okay.


95.	INT.  JOY'S PLACE - NIGHT.				95.

Darkness.  The sound of a key jiggling.  A lock unbolted.
Finally the door opens and they walk inside.  JOY turns on
the lights.  An awkward pause.

JOY
	I'll turn on the kettle.

She goes to the stove.  Turning back she observes BORIS take
off his shoes.

JOY
	Yes, wellumplease take off
	your shoes. Make yourself comfortable.

BORIS wanders around, observing.  JOY feels a little
uncomfortable.

JOY
	It's my parents' place.
	I plan on moving out soon, though.

BORIS
	How long you live here?

JOY
	Since I was born. But really, there are
	a lot of advantages to not moving.
(a beat.)
	So what did you do in Russia?

BORIS
	I was thief.

JOY
	Oh. Do you meanthe mafia?

BORIS
	No. I am independent. I steal things
	on my own. Although I have many offers.
(sees JOY's guitar.)
	You are musician?

JOY
	Oh, no, not really. I just
	write songs a little.

BORIS
	What kind songs?

JOY
	Oh, I don't know. They're all so terrible.

BORIS
(a nod of understanding.)
	Love songs.
(a beat.)
	Play.
(JOY shakes her head,
terrified)
	I play.

BORIS begins playing and singing a song, perhaps an Olivia
Newton-John love ballad. He sings with intense emotion. When
he finishes, the kettle whistles.

JOY brings the teapot to the table and pours for herself and
BORIS.  BORIS comes to his place and drops a half dozen
teaspoons of sugar into his tea.

They sit and drink tea.  Then:

JOY
	Would you like to see my
	macrame collection?
(BORIS looks confused)
	Come. Follow me.

She leads him into her bedroom to her showcase of macrame
dolls, pillows, and assorted knickknacks.

BORIS
(impressed)
	You make?

JOY
	Uh huh.

BORIS
	All by yourself?

JOY
	Uh huh.

Pause.

BORIS
	Beautiful.

JOY
	Thank you. II know it might seem
	childish, but sometimes I like to play
	with them and make up stories.
	These two here 
(lifts a pair of figurines)
	I call them Chuckle and Giggle.
	They always make me laugh

BORIS
	You should build store. Start business.

JOY
	Oh-h-h

BORIS
(pointing to a doll)
	This? Two hundred dollars. Easy.

JOY
	Oh, but that's Punky!
	I could never sell Punky.
	I could never sell any of this.

BORIS lifts Punky, puts it back, dirty now.

BORIS
(sorry)
	Oh.

JOY
	Don't worry. They're all machine washable.

BORIS
(smiles)
	Ah. Machine washable.

JOY
(a beat)
	You know, your English is really
	very good. You should be in a higher level.

BORIS
(a beat.)
	Your face is like love poem.

BORIS is very close to JOY.  She lets him embrace her.

DISSOLVE TO:


96.	INT.  JOY'S PLACE - LATER THAT NIGHT.		96.

Out of the darkness we hear heavy breathing, sounds of
nervous excitement from JOY.

JOY and BORIS's figures emerge faintly from the darkness.
They are in bed.

BORIS
	Do not be actress. Relax. Boris here.

JOY quiets down. Then suddenly she cries out.  A still
pause.

BORIS
	Okay.

JOY
(a beat.)
	Okay?

BORIS
(a beat.)
	I go now.

BORIS gets out of bed.  JOY listens to him gather his
things, dress.  Finally, the door opens.  BORIS, her guitar,
and perhaps some stereo equipment disappear.  The door
shuts.


97.	INT.  TEACHER'S LOUNGE - DAY.			97.

JOY sits alone at a table, perhaps wistful, or melancholy,
and looks out the window.  RHONDA joins her and she perks
up.

RHONDA
	How's it going?

JOY
	Oh, hi, Rhonda!

RHONDA
	Your students treating you okay?

JOY
	Oh, they're justgreat! And already
	I'm seeing improvement! But you know,
	the funny thing isI feel it's me
	who's doing the most learning.

RHONDA
	I know just what you mean.
	'Cause teaching is really about learning.

JOY
	Yeah.
(pause)
	But really I can't tell you how
	gratifying it's beenI mean, I'm
	givingand they're taking.
	I couldn't be happier.

RHONDA
	I hate to have to say this, but:
	I told you so.

JOY
	How about you? How's it going
	with your class?

RHONDA
	Oh, my students are just a hoot,
	always telling me how much they
	love me. But if you can keep a secret
(lowers her voice)
	There's this one Igor I've got
	such a crush on

JOY
	Oh?

RHONDA
	Not that I'd everI mean, these Russians

JOY
	What?

RHONDA lifts her arm, points to her armpit, mouths "B.O."

JOY
	Really? My students seem okay

RHONDA
	Well, then, you are lucky.

JOY
	Yeah. I guess I'm lucky.

JOY'S POV THROUGH THE WINDOW of the STRIKERS still marching
on the sidewalk.

BACK TO JOY AND RHONDA gazing outside.  Pause.  RHONDA turns
away from the window.

RHONDA
	You know, Joy, just between you
	and me, I actually think the
	quality of teaching has gone up
	since the strike began.

JOY
	Oh, well, I don't know.
	I just wish it were all over.

RHONDA
	Me too. But you know, once you're
	here and you're teaching, it's as if
	it doesn't even exist. You forget.

Pause.

JOY
	Rhonda?

RHONDA
	Yes?

JOY
	If your Igor

RHONDA
	Used deodorant

JOY
	Do you think?

A Russian woman, ZHENIA, suddenly interrupts, barging into
the room.  She stands before JOY looking very upset.

ZHENIA
	You teacher Boris?

JOY
	Er Yes.

ZHENIA spits into JOY's face.

ZHENIA
	Whore!

And she lunges for her, cursing in Russian.  RHONDA, other
TEACHERS, and SECURITY GUARDS get her off JOY and out of the
room.

RHONDA
	My God! That woman was nuts!
	Are you okay?

JOY
(somewhat shaken)
	Oh, fine Thank you

A bell rings.  TEACHERS, ET. AL. Begin to disperse.

JOY gathers her stuff, RHONDA helping.

RHONDA
(whispers)
	Joy, you didn'tdid you?

Some TEACHERS pause to overhear JOY's anticipated reply.
But it doesn't come.


98.	INT.  ALLEN'S PLACE - EVENING.			98.

ALLEN sits on his bed, tense and sweaty, gripping his phone.


99.	INT.  HELEN'S PLACE - EVENING.			99.

HELEN lies on her bed, strewn with poetry books and papers,
concentrating on the phone.

The phone rings.  She answers it.  She hears only some faint
breathing.  For a while she says nothng.

HELEN (V.O.)
	Thank you for calling me again.
(no response.)
	I'm sorry if I was a little bit
	aggressive last time, butI wasn't
	preparedand I'm not very good
	on the phone But U have to
	meet you Can we meet?

ALLEN hangs up and unplugs the phone.  Pause.

The door buzzes.  ALLEN rises.

ALLEN
	Who is it?

KRISTINA (O.S.)
	Kristina.

ALLEN hesitates, then opens the door. Pause.

KRISTINA
	I'm sorry about last night.

ALLEN
	Yeah. Me too. I shouldn't haveum

KRISTINA
	I understand. See, I can admit it.
	I'm fatugly

ALLEN
	No, no

KRISTINA
	Yes, yes

Tears are trickling down KRISTINA's face.  ALLEN hands her a
crumpled tissue.

KRISTINA
	Thanks.

Pause.

ALLEN
	Say, you wanna go somewhere?

KRISTINA nods, grateful.


100.	EXT.  BAR - NIGHT.						100.

MUSIC flows outside.


101.	INT.  BAR - NIGHT.						101.

ALLEN and KRISTINA foxtrot by the jukebox.


102.	INT.  RESTAURANT - NIGHT.				102.

ALLEN and KRISTINA sit in a booth.  They are eating.

KRISTINA
	I have a confession to make.

ALLEN
	Oh?

KRISTINA
	Remember Pedro's penis?

ALLEN
	You mean, the one that wascut off?

KRISTINA
	Yeahwell, it wasn't cut off.

ALLEN
	What happened to it?

KRISTINA
(a beat.)
	Nothing.

ALLEN
	II don't understand. Why would you
	make something like that up?
(no response.)
	Was Pedro even killed?

KRISTINA nods.

ALLEN
	How do you know?
(no response)
	What happened?

Pause.

KRISTINA
	Well, I'd always been very friendly
	to him. I try to be that way with all
	the doormen, even if they're usually
	snickering behind my back. But I don't
	care, I'm still friendly. It's my way.
	Well, Pedro was different. Pedro never
	snickered. Of course, who was he to
	snicker? He wasn't exactly Tom Cruise.
	Still, he could have, and he didn't.
	Well, anyway, one night


103.	INT.  APARTMENT BUILDING LOBBY - NIGHT.	103.

PEDRO opens the door for KRISTINA.

KRISTINA (V.O.)
	I had just come back late
	from the 24-hour Pathmark

PEDRO
	Good evening.

KRISTINA
	Hello, Pedro. Do you think
	you could help me with these bags?

PEDRO
	No problem.

PEDRO locks up and takes the bags from KRISTINA.  They then
walk to the elevator.

KRISTINA (V.O.)
	Normally I don't need any help, but
	my back hurt and the bags were heavy.
	There was half-gallon of strawberry
	ice cream and a couple of boxes of
	fudge, a key lime pie Really, I just
	couldn't wait to snuggle up under the
	covers and enjoy myself with the TV.
	You know


104.	INT.  ELEVATOR - NIHGT.					104.

PEDRO and KRISTINA get inside.

KRISTINA (V.O.)
	It was in the elevator that I first
	got a funny feelinglike he was
	looking at me kind of funnybut I
	thought maybe he was just being
	friendly

They get off and walk to her apartment.


105.	INT.  KRISTINA'S PLACE - NIGHT.			105.

PEDRO follows KRISTINA inside, brings the groceries to the
kitchen.

KRISTINA
	Well, thank you so much, Pedro.

PEDRO
	No problem.

There is an awkward silence.

KRISTINA (V.O.)
	But then he wouldn't move. I almost
	panicked, but then I realized he
	probably was just waiting for a tip.
	So I got out my purseand then he
	surprised me.

PEDRO
	Forget about it. What I'd like is
	a scoop of this ice cream before
	going back down.

KRISTINA (V.O.)
	Well, isn't that nice and friendly,
	I thought. Thought I also thought,
	that's a little strange. I'm a
	little shy, you know, and also I had
	only one half-gallon. But he said,
	"Sure!" Well, then he sat down and
	started telling me about how he had
	no family, no friends I started
	feeling really sorry for himand I
	Well, I guess I felt I shouldn't feel
	so superior. But then, all of a sudden,
	just as I was finishing scooping

BACK TO ALLEN AND KRISTINA in the restaurant.

KRISTINA
	He startedkissing memore and more
	and longer and deeperit was horrible
	horrible! Next thing I knew he tore off
	my dress, myeverything! And he was
	climbing on top of me He thought
	because I was fat and ugly I'd beeasy
	that Iwanted it. I tried to fight him
	off, but he was too fast for me, and
	next thing I knew he wasinside me,
	pounding away. Oh, Allen!

KRISTINA grabs a napkin to cry into. Pause.

The WAITRESS comes by.

WAITRESS
	All finished?

ALLEN
	Yeah.

KRISTINA
	I guess so.

WAITRESS
	Would you like to see a dessert menu?

KRISTINA
	What kind of ice cream do you have?

WAITRESS
	Chocolate, vanilla, and strawberry.

KRISTINA
	I'll just have a plain chocolate fudge
	sundae with strawberry ice cream.

WAITRESS
	And you, Sir?

ALLEN
	Just the check, please.

The WAITRESS smiles and leaves.

KRISTINA
	So anyway, everything suddenly got
	quiet and I thought, well, at least
	the worst is over.


106.	INT.  KRISTINA'S PLACE - NIGHT.			106.

PEDRO lies on top of KRISTINA.

PEDRO
	How do you feel now?

KRISTINA
	Kiss me again.

KRISTINA (V.O.)
	Well, of course, that was just an act.
	I let him kiss me one last time, and then


BACK TO ALLEN AND KRISTINA in the restaurant.

KRISTINA
	Grabbed hold of his neck and
	twisted itbackwards.

The WAITRESS comes by with the dessert.

WAITRESS
	Here you are.

KRISTINA
	Thank you.
(while eating her sandae)
	Anyway, so then I had to cut up
	his body, plastic bag all the parts
	I've been throwing it out gradually
	ever since. There's still a little
	left in my freezer.

Pause.

ALLEN
	So you did cut off his

KRISTINA
	No, I left it attached. I didn't
	want to have to touch it again.
(a beat.)
	Oh, I feel so terrible. You must
	think I'm a monster. But what else
	could I have done? Anyway, I couldn't
	help myself. I hatesex. I'm sorry,
	but just the idea of itof someone
	all overinsidemeI know it's not
	right, but Can we still befriends?

ALLEN
	Um I guess Yeah I mean, we all
	have ouryou knowpluses and minuses

Pause.

KRISTINA
	It was a crime of passion.
(a beat.)
	I'm a passionate woman.


107.	INT.  APARTMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT.			107.

ALLEN and KRISTINA come out of the elevator.

ALLEN
	Well

KRISTINA
	I had a lovely time, Allen.
	Thank you. I hope we can do it again.

ALLEN
	Good night.

KRISTINA
	Good night.

ALLEN has entered his apartment and is about to close the
door behind him, when KRISTINA suddenly interrupts:

KRISTINA
	Oh, and Allen!

ALLEN
	Yeah?

KRISTINA
	You're a very good dancer.

ALLEN smiles weakly, then shuts his door, locking and
double-bolting it.  Pause.  KRISTINA returns to her
apartment.


108.	INT.  ALLEN'S PLACE - NIGHT.				108.

ALLEN stares at his telephone.  Finally, he plugs it in.
Instantly it rings.  He answers it.  At first, just
breathing.  Then:

HELEN (V.O.)
	I've had you on auto-redial all night.

ALLEN hangs up and unplugs the phone again.  He sits down
and stares at it.


109.	INT.  APARTMENT BUILDING HALLWAY - NIGHT.	109.

ALLEN comes out of his apartment and walks bravely down
towards HELEN's apartment.  He stops outside her door.
Pause.  He buzzes.

A moment passes.  ALLEN covers the peephole with his hand.

HELEN (O.S.)
	Hello?

HELEN opens the door, sees ALLEN.

HELEN
	Yes?

Pause.

ALLEN
	I'm the one.

HELEN
	I'm the one.
(a beat.)
	Oh.

She cannot disguise her disappointment, but tries.

HELEN
	Come in.

ALLEN
	Okay.


110.	INT.  HELEN'S PLACE - NIGHT.				110.

HELEN and ALLEN sit opposite each other.  A long silence.
Finally:

HELEN
	Drink?

ALLEN
	Nothanks.

Pause.

HELEN
	This isn't working.

ALLEN
	No.

HELEN
	You're not my type.

ALLEN
	No.

HELEN
	I'm sorry.

ALLEN
	It's okay.

HELEN
	I made a mistake.

ALLEN
	Me too.

HELEN escorts him out.

HELEN
	Good night.

ALLEN
	Good night.


111.	INT.  APARTMENT BUILDING HALLWAY - NIGHT.	111.

ALLEN walks back towards his door, pauses, looks at the
other end of the hallway: he decides to go visit KRISTINA
instead.

He buzzes KRISTINA's door.

After a few moments, the door opens.  ALLEN looks at the
ground.  KRISTINA's eyes are full, her hands coated with
M&M's.  he walks inside.


112.	INT.  KRISTINA'S PLACE - NIGHT.			112.

ALLEN and KRISTINA lie in bed, facing different directions.


113.	EXT.  FLORIDA/ARIZONA GOLF COURSE - DAY.	113.

It is hot and sunny.  LENNY is golfing alone, isolated.

Suddenly, from afar, he hears a woman's cries.  He looks up.

LENNY'S POV:  An older woman is running around, hysterical.
An older man lies on the ground.  Ambulance men haul him
onto a stretcher and into a waiting ambulance.

After the ambulance has left, a young caddie picks up the
strewn golf equipment and transports it away.


114.	INT.  DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY.				114.

LENNY sits across from the DOCTOR.

LENNY
	Are you sure?

DOCTOR
	Look, you see this?
(illuminates an x-ray)
	You're the picture of health.

LENNY
	So no tumors.

DOCTOR
	Nope.

LENNY
	And my heart?

DOCTOR
	Like an ox. Lenny.
	You're gonna live to a hundred.

LENNY
	Oh. That means I still have
	another 35 years.

DOCTOR
(smiles)
	Just stay off the salt!

LENNY
(musters a return smile)
	You bet!


115.	EXT.  CONDO ROADWAY - DAY.				115.

MONA is driving along.


116.	INT.  MONA'S CAR - DAY.					116.

MONA notices someone up ahead.

MONA'S POV of DIANE jogging.

BACK TO MONA contemplating murder.  She aims for DIANE.  But
as she gets closer, a SECURITY GUARD suddenly appears.  She
waves with a friendly smile at DIANE instead.

ANGLE ON DIANE waving back in a pleasant manner.


117.	INT.  MONA AND LENNY'S CONDO - NIGHT.		117.

LENNY and MONA are preparing for bed, watching TV.

MONA
	I met with Steven Zimmer this morning.

LENNY
	You like him?

MONA
	Yeah. I'm gonna hire him.

LENNY
	Good. I'm gonna use Marty Blau.

MONA
	Good. I feel so much better now.

LENNY
	Yeah. It shouldn't take too long.

Pause.

MONA
	Lenny?

LENNY
	Yeah?

MONA
	Can you sleep on the living room sofa?

LENNY
	Why?

MONA
	Steven Zimmer thought it would be
	a good idea.

Pause.

LENNY
	Okay.

LENNY starts off for the living room, gets extra pillow and
blanket.  Pause.  MONA then gets up and follows him into the
living room.

MONA
	Lenny?

LENNY
	Yeah?

MONA
	You don't have to sleep there.
	You can stay with me if you want.

LENNY
	Nah. It's okay. Good night.

MONA
	Good night.

Pause.  MONA turns back towards her bedroom.

LENNY
	Close the door behind you.

MONA closes the door behind her.


118.	INT.  DIANE'S CONDO - DAY.				118.

LENNY rings the doorbell.  DIANE opens the door.

DIANE
	Oh, hello.

LENNY
	I thought I'd say hi.

DIANE
	Please come in.

LENNY follows DIANE into her living room.  She fixes a
couple drinks, turns on a cd.

DIANE
	Gin and tonic?

LENNY
	Okay. Thanks.

She returns with the drinks, sits beside him on the sofa.

DIANE
	Uch, it's so bright outside.
	It gives me a headache just
	looking out the window.

LENNY
	It's supposed to rain tomorrow.

DIANE
	I don't want to talk about the weather.

Pause.

LENNY
	Well, it was good for playing golf.

DIANE
	I hate that game. It's so slow and tedious.

LENNY
	Still, it passes time.

DIANE
	I like to travel.

LENNY
	I wen to Europe once.

DIANE
	Have you ever been to Tahiti?

LENNY
	No.

DIANE
	What about Tunisia? A night in Tunisia!

LENNY
	No.

DIANE
	Vincent never liked to travel.

LENNY
	I guess I'm like Vincent.

DIANE
(laughs)
	You know, when I was a child I always
	imagined I'd marry the man I fell in
	love with, have a son and daughter who
	loved me as much as I hated my mother,
	then die tragically and suddenly,
	young and beautiful. Later, when
	Vincent left me, I imagined I'd finally
	be happy.

LENNY
	I guess you've never lost your imagination.

DIANE
	Lenny, I've got to get out of here
	I can't breath The women are all
	pathetic gossipsand the men

LENNY
	Just pathetic?

DIANE
	I don't want to die here.

LENNY
	You just don't want to die.

DIANE
	Not alone.

They make love.  Afterwards, LENNY turns away.

DIANE
	Don't. Don't feel guilty.

LENNY turns back, looks at her.

LENNY
	I don't. I don't feel anything.


119.	INT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - EVENING.			119.

The family is at the table, eating dinner.

BILL
	So how was school today?

BILLY
	Okay. Ronald Farber was absent.

BILL
	Oh?

BILLY
	He was afraid of the math test.

TRISH
	So he stayed home?

BILLY
	Yeah. He cut.

TRISH
	Oh, that's terrible. His parents

BILLY
	They don't know yet.
	They're still on vacation.

TRISH
	Oh, are they gonna be upset.

BILLY
	Yeah, well, Ronald's gonna be upset
	when he finds out the test was cancelled.

BILL
	What happened?

BILLY
	Mrs. Paley was absent also.

TRISH
(chuckles.)
	Oh, gee!

BILL
	Did you call Ronald and tell him?

BILLY
	Yeah, but there was no answer.

TRISH
	So was Mrs. Paley sick, then?

BILLY
	Well, everyone says she was
	just too strung out.

TRISH
	Now why do people say things like that?

BILLY
	'Cause she's a drug addict.

TRISH
	And how do you know?

BILLY
	Mom. Everyone knows.

TRISH
	Well, I didn't know. Did you know, Bill?

BILL
	No.

BILLY
	Well, it's what everyone says: she's
	a junkie. And she's probably gonna be
	fired. It's really sad.

TRISH
	Well, if Mrs. Paley turns out, in fact,
	to be a junkie, thenshe should be
	fired. Don't you think, Bill?

BILL
	I don't know. Don't you think that's
	a little harsh? I mean, if it's not
	affecting her work

TRISH
	Well, apparently it is. And no, in fact,
	I don't think it's a little harsh at all.
	I'm sorry, but when it comes to drug
	abuseand children, my children Uch,
	they should all be locked up and
	throw away the key. I'm serious.
	And Billy, I want you to know, if you
	ever even think of doing drugs, and
	end up dying in a hospitalI'd disown you.
	That's how strongly I feel. Now I know,
	Bill, I may sound harsh, but we're
	talking about our kids. Not to be too
	grandiose, but this is the future,
	the future of our country we're
	talking about, after all.

A pause.  The telephone rings.

TRISH
	I'll get it.
(answers the phone.)
	Hello, who is this, pleas?
	Oh, hi Sure, hold on
(to BILL)
	It's Joe Grasso.

BILL
	Oh, great! Thanks!
(rises, picks up the phone)
	Hey, Joe! Whay's up? How's Johnny doing?


120.	INT.  JOE'S PLACE - EVENING.				120.

JOE grips the telephone tightly.

JOE
	You're a dead man.

He hangs up.

BACK TO THE MAPLEWOOD HOME where we see BILL's reaction to
the telephone CLICK.

BILL
(fakes continuing
the conversation)
	Oh, good, good No problem! Right
	Okay. Well, take care Bye!

TRISH
	How's Johnny doing?

BILL
	Oh, fine, fine! Much better!

The doorbell rings.

TRISH
	Now who could that be?

BILL
	I'll get it.

BILL goes to the front door.

BILL
	Who is it?

VOICE
	Police officer.

BILL opens the door.  There is a DETECTIVE and TWO POLICE
OFFICERS.

BILL
	Can I help you?

DETECTIVE
	Are you William Maplewood?

BILL
	Y-yes.

DETECTIVE
	Sorry to disturb you, but we have some
	questions for you and your wife. It has
	to do with your son's friend, Johnny Grasso.

BILL
	Did something?
(a meaningful silence)
	Come this way. We're just finishing
	dinner, but II'll be right with you.

BILL escorts them into the living room.

TRISH (O.S.)
	Bill, who is it?

BILL goes to the dining room, mouths, "The Police!" to
TRISH, so the children won't know.

BILL
	You take care of the kids.

BILL returns to his guests.  They all sit down.  BILL is
noticeably jittery.

BILL
	Sorry. Nowumyou said something
	about Ronald Farber?

The DETECTIVE is nonplussed.

BILL
	I'm sorryerI meanI mean, Johnny Grasso?


121.	INT.  BILL AND TRISH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT.	121.

TRISH is asleep, but BILL is wide awake.  He is terrified as
he lies in bed, listening to the night sounds.

He thinks he hears footsteps.

He looks up and sees JOHNNY

JOHNNY
	You're so cool.

JOHNNY moves to embrace BILL, but then BILL suddenly jumps
up in fright, awake again.

TRISH
(waking up)
	Bill?  Are you alright?

BILL holds onto TRISH, embracing her, shivering.

BILL
	Don't leave mePlease don't leave me

TRISH comforts him.


122.	EXT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - DAY.				122.

Holding TIMMY's hand, TRISH comes out the front door in her
robe and slippers.

A schoolbus is waiting at the corner.

TRISH
(calling to the bus)
	One second!
(calling inside)
	Hurry up, Billy! The bus is here!

BILLY rushes out after them, but is too late: the bus has
already taken off.  Defeated, TRISH, BILLY, and TIMMY turn
back to the house, then suddenly stop and look: the words
"Rapist" and "Pervert" have been spray-painted onto their
housefront.


123.	EXT.  PARK - DAY.						123.

It is sunny and warm, the same park seen in Bill's dream
earlier in the movie.  Couples straight and gay walk hand in
hand, families picnic, beautiful people sunbathe.

BILL observes the pleasant tranquility from atop a hill.
But this time he gently approaches everyone and startrs
hugging them.  Many smiles and tears.

MUSIC SWELL.

PSYCHIATRIST (O.S.)
	Beautiful.


124.	INT.  PSYCHIATRIST'S OFFICE - DAY.		124.

BILL sits opposite his PSYCHIATRIST.

PSYCHIATRIST
	That's a beautiful dream.

BILL
	Thank you. I take it as a sign.

PSYCHIATRIST
	Of

BILL
	Trish and I are thinking of moving.
	Out into the country. The real country.

PSYCHIATRIST
	How are things between you and Trish?

BILL
(a beat.)
	Never better.

PSYCHIATRIST
	Oh?

BILL
	I don't know what happened, but
	all of a sudden, one night last week
	we were watching TV andshe
	turned me on. The kids went to bed
	andwe fucked. And on the weekend
	in the morning, toowe fucked.
	My life is just one big fuck!

BILL laughs, the PSYCHIATRIST chuckles.

PSYCHIATRIST
	I'm happy to hear that.

BILL
	Thanks. But you know it's strange
	I mean how likenowjust like that
	everything's normalized.

A long pause.  Then BILL rises.

BILL
	Well.

PSYCHIATRIST
	There's still ten minutes.
	Nothing more you want to discuss?

BILL
	No, I guess not. Everything's fine.

BILL walks towards the door, but stops before a photograph
of a young boy hanging on the wall.

BILL
	Was that you?

PSYCHIATRIST
	Yeah.

BILL
	Hmmmph. You've changed.


125.	INT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - EVENING.			125.

The family eats at the dinner table.  No one talks.  The
mood is tense.


126.	INT.  LIVING-ROOM - EVENING.				126.

While TRISH puts TIMMY and CHLOE to bed, BILL and BILLY sit
on the couch in front of the TV.

BILLY
	Dad?

BILL
	Yes, Billy?

BILLY
	Everyone at school is saying
	things about you.

BILL
	Who is everyone?

BILLY
	Kids. You know. Everyone.

BILL
	What are they saying?

Pause.

BILLY
	That you're a serial rapist.

BILL
	Oh.

BILLY
	And a pervert.

BILL
	You mean, like what they
	painted on the house?

BILLY nods.  Pause.

BILLY
	Daddid youdid youwith Johnny Grasso
	and Ronald Farber?

Pause.

BILL
	Yes.

Pause.

BILLY
	What did youdo?

BILL
	II touched them

BILLY
	Whadya mean exactlytouched?

BILL
	Ifondled them.

Pause.

BILLY
	What for?

BILL
	I couldn't help myself.

Pause.

BILLY
	What else?

BILL
	I unzipped myself

BILLY
	Do you meanmasturbated?

BILL
	No.

BILLY
	Thenwhat?

BILL
	Imade love

Pause.

BILLY
	What does thatmean?

BILL
	I fucked them.

Pause.

BILLY
	What was it like?

BILL
	It wasgreat.

Pause.

BILLY
	Would you do it again?

BILL
	Yes.

Pause.

BILLY
	Would you ever fuck me?

BILL
	NoI jerk off instead.

BILL weeps.


127.	INT.  BILL AND TRISH'S BATHROOM - NIGHT.	127.

BILL swallows half a dozen sleeping pills.


128.	EXT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - NIGHT.			128.

A car drives up and idles out front.  DRUNKEN TEENAGERS
laugh and curse as they throw beer bottles at the house.
They quickly speed off.


129.	INT.  BILL AND TRISH'S BEDROOM - 			129.
THAT MOMENT.

BILL and TRISH hear the sound of a window being shattered,
but remain in bed.

BILL
	It's true: I'm a pervert.


130.	EXT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - DAYBREAK.			130.

TRISH carries CHLOE and a suitcase as she rushes BILLY and
TIMMY out to the car.  KOOKI follows along.  The door slams
behind them.

TIMMY
	Mommy, I'm!

TRISH
	Shh! Quiet!

They get in the hastily packed car and drive off.


131.	INT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - DAY.				131.

BILL wakes up.  He gets out of bed and looks around.  He
sees drawers have been emptied and left open.

BILL
	Trish?

He goes to CHLOE's room and sees just an empty crib.  He
checks BILLY and TIMMY's room: no one is there.

BILL
	Billy?  Timmy?

He searches the rest of the house, though somewhat
perfunctorily, as he knows he will find no one.

BILL
	Hello?

He looks bereft as he stands uncertainly in the middle of
the house.

The doorbell rings.  He hesitates, then goes to open the
front door.


132.	EXT.  MAPLEWOOD HOME - DAY.				132.

BILL opens the door and finds a brown paper-wrapped package
on the welcome mat.  It says, "For Bill."  He picks it up,
takes it inside, shuts the door.

Pause.  Then: BOOM!

FADE TO BLACK.


133.	INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - DAY.				133.

JOY sits on the train.  She is carrying a bouquet of
flowers.


134.	EXT.  BRIGHTON BEACH SUBWAY STATION - DAY.	134.

JOY gets off the train, walks down to the street.


135.	EXT.  BRIGHTON BEACH AVENUE - DAY.		135.

JOY walks amongst many Russian immigrants.  She pauses to
dig a piece of paper out of her pants pocket.  There is an
address scribbled on it.


136.	EXT.  SIDE STREET - DAY.				136.

JOY comes up to the entrance of a seedy building.  She
hesitates, then walks inside.


137.	INT.  SEEDY BUILDING - DAY.				137.

JOY climbs a few flights of stairs, arrives at a door with
the number 8D on it.  She buzzes, then waits.  She hears
quarreling, in Russian.

ZHENIA opens the door.  She has a black eye and a cut lip.

JOY
	OherI'm sorryI just wanted to
	erHere

JOY shoves her bouquet of flowers into ZHENIA's hand.  She
is about to beat a hasty retreat when ZHENIA suddenly calls:

ZHENIA
	Boris!

ZHENIA abandons JOY at the door and goes back inside,
muttering obscenities (in Russian).

BORIS appears at the door, surprised to see her.  Oddly, JOY
seems equally surprised to see him.

BORIS
	Come inside.


138.	INT.  BORIS AND ZHENIA'S PLACE - DAY.		138.

JOY sits opposite BORIS.  ZHENIA brings her a cup of tea.
ZHENIA'S MOTHER sniffles and shuffles about in the b.g.

JOY
(to ZHENIA)
	Spaceebo.

BORIS signals ZHENIA to scram.

BORIS
	Joy. Why are you come here?

JOY
	I just wanted toumsay
	I was sorryto your wife.

BORIS
	Zhenia is not my wife.

JOY looks confused, perhaps even suspicious.  BORIS shouts
something in Russian to ZHENIA.

ZHENIA
(to JOY)
	I am not wife Boris.

BORIS corrects Zhenia's grammar.

ZHENIA
	I am notBoris's wife.

BORIS
(to ZHENIA)
	Thank you.

And he dismisses her once more.

BORIS
	Her English very bad. I try teach,
	but Zheniaslow.

JOY
	So you mean you're really not married?

BORIS
(laughs)
	I am in America! I am free man!

ZHENIA
	Is Zhenia a free woman?

BORIS rolls his eyes.  Pause.

BORIS
	Zhenia loves me. It is problem.
	She want be my wife, but she don't
	listen. What can I do? What can I do?
(a beat.)
	Come. You want me to drive you
	New Jersey? We go shopping mall?

JOY
	No, thank you. I don't think that's really

JOY suddenly notices her guitar lying against the wall
opposite.  When she turns back to BORIS he is shouting
something in Russian at ZHENIA again.  ZHENIA shouts
something back, and a new quarrel begins.  A baby cries
somewhere o.s.

When things cool down ZHENIA brings over a tray with
pastries and vodka.

BORIS
	Joy. I must ask you question.

JOY
	Yes?

BORIS
	But I very ashamed.

JOY
	I'm sure I'll understand.

BORIS
	Okay. Can I borrow money?

JOY
	Oh. Well

BORIS
	It is very important.

Pause.

JOY
	Well, I guess it's better borrowing
	than stealing

BORIS
	Yes. It is better.

JOY
	And money isonly money.

BORIS
	Yes. It is only money.

JOY glances over at ZHENIA standing at the other end of the
room.  Her face is anxious, pleading.

JOY
	How much would you like?

BORIS
	One thousand dollars.

JOY
	A th-thou.

BORIS
	Alright. Five hundred. I need money now.

JOY
	W-well I guess I could go to
	a cash machine

BORIS
	I know where is ATM.

BORIS rises quickly.  JOY hesitates.

JOY
	Boris?

BORIS
	Yes?

JOY
	Do you think I could have my guitar back?


139.	EXT.  STREET - EVENING.					139.

BORIS and JOY, guitar in hand, are walking.

BORIS
	Do you think shopping mall in
	New Jersey is open tonight?

JOY
	Yeah. Probably.

They stop outside a bank.  JOY withdraws her money from the
ATM.  BORIS anxiously awaits on the sidewalk until JOY hands
it over.

JOY
	Here.

BORIS
	Joy. I love you.

JOY
	You love New Jersey.

BORIS
	New Jersey is America!
(laughs, embraces JOY.)
	I give you back Monday.

JOY
	That's okay. I won't be there, anyway.

BORIS
	Why no?

JOY
	I don't know, but for some reason
	now I have more sympathy for the strikers.
(a beat.)
	See ya.

BORIS watches JOY walk away with her guitar.

BORIS
(mutters to himself)
	Stupid American.

BORIS pockets his money and walks off in the opposite
direction.


TITLE CARD: "THANKSGIVING"

140.	EXT.  MONA'S CONDO - DAY.				140.

BILLY stands on the terrace and looks down.  He sees palm
trees.  He sees the ocean.  He sees a beautiful woman
sunbathing by the pool.  Talk of turkey and weather filters
out to him.

KOOKI stands beside him.


141.	INT.  BOCA RATON CONDOMINIUM - DAY.		141.

LENNY, MONNA, HELEN, TRISH, and JOY sit at a long table
filled with holiday food.  TIMMY watches TV in the b.g.
CHLOE sleeps in her crib.

HELEN
	Anyway, so the police came and looked
	in her freezer and found baggies filled
	with the super's genitals.

Pause.  LENNY salts his food, a heavy dose.

MONA
	I use baggies.

JOY
	Me too.

HELEN
	Everyone uses baggies. That's why we can
	all relate to the crime. Don't you see?

TRISH
	I can't relate to it.

Pause.

HELEN
	In any case, there's a guy I've met,
	Joy, that I think you'd like.
	He's into computers, I think,

JOY
	How do you know him?

HELEN
	He's another neighbor of mine.
	Do you wanna call him, or should I
	give him your number?

JOY
	I'll call him.

HELEN
	Oh, great. I know he'd really like that.

TRISH
	What about me?

HELEN
	I'm looking, I'm looking.

TRISH
	I like computers.

HELEN
	Trish, trust me on this one:
	not for you.

MONA
	And what about me?

HELEN
	Mom, I haven't forgotten. It's just
	it's hard. But I am looking for everyone.

LENNY
	Don't look for me.

HELEN
	Have you found someone?

LENNY
	No. There is no one.

Pause.

MONA
	I heard Diane Fred had a stroke.

LENNY
	She'll recover.

MONA
	That's good.

JOY
	Where there's life there's hope.

TRISH
	That's right.

HELEN
	You bet.

MONA
	Absolutely.

LENNY
	Yeah.

Pause.

JOY
	Could you pass over the
	sweet potatoes, please?

TRISH
	Sure.

Pause.  LENNY resalts his food.

HELEN
	Could you pass down the stuffing, please?

LENNY
	Here.

Pause.

TRISH
	Anyone watch Leno last night?

Everyone shakes his head or mumbles no.

Pause.

MONA
	So what's going to happen now to
	that woman who killed your super?

HELEN
	I don't know, Mom. But it's so sad.
	She's all alone.
(a beat.)
	I wish I'd gotten to know her better.
	We might have found we had something
	in common.

Pause.

JOY
	Maybe you'll write a poem about her.

HELEN bursts out laughing.

HELEN
	I'm sorry. But don't worry.
	I'm not laughing at you.
	I'm laughing with you.

JOY
	But I'm not laughing.

HELEN stops laughing.


142.	EXT.  CONDOMINIUM TERRACE - DAY.			142.

CLOSE ON BILLY as his face expresses mounting excitement.

BILLY'S POV of the beautiful woman sunbathing.  She unhooks
her bikini top.

BACK TO BILLY climaxing.  CLOSE ON COOKI licking up BILLY's
little puddle of sperm on the floor.


143.	INT.  CONDOMINIUM - DAY.				143.

The meal is painfully silent.  Finally:

MONA
	Let's make a toast.

JOY
	To happiness.

EVERYONE ELSE
	To happiness!

Glasses clink.  Some hesitation before everyone downs the
wine.  Laughter.  KOOKI races in, jumps into TRISH's lap,
licks her face.

TRISH
	Kooki!

BILLY enters.  He is ecstatic.  Tears well up in his eyes.

BILLY
	I came!

SHOT OF A FULL MOON.


144.	INT.  CONDOMINIUM - NIGHT.				144.

The CAMERA DOLLIES across the living room and bedrooms.
Everyone is in bed, but unable to shut their eyes.

MONA rises to the terrace, her eyes silently welling with
tears.  JOY follows her.

JOY
	Don't, Mom. 'Cause the thing about
	family isno matter how distant you are
	from each other, separated, estranged,
	divorced, whateverno matter how little
	you can relate to each otherit doesn't
	matter: you're still family. You're not
	along Ya see?

MONA smiles, weakly.

CUT TO:

BLACK.

The sound of a telephone ringing.  Then:


145.	SPLIT SCREEN: EXT. ESL SCHOOL/			145.
INT.  ALLEN'S PLACE - DAY.

JOY stands at a payphone, a placard resting on her shoulder.
Strikers pace in the b.g.

ALLEN sits half undressed on his bed, phonebook at his side.
He answers the phone.

BOUNCY MUSIC.

ALLEN
	Hello?

JOY
	Hello. Could I please speak to
	Allen Mellencamp?

ALLEN
	Speaking.

JOY
	Well, my sister Helen told me
	I should call you.

ALLEN
	Oh, then you must be Joy. Hi.

JOY
	Hi. Gee, you sound so familiar.

ALLEN
	You do too.

JOY
	But in a good way, a way I like.

ALLEN
	Me too.

JOY
	Huh.

ALLEN
	Say, what are you wearing, I mean
	doing tonight?

JOY
	Oh, nothing special. Would you
	like to get together?

ALLEN
	Yeah. I know a great place off Exit 146.
	Have you heard of Happy's?

JOY
	Eryeah.

ALLEN
	Is Happy's no good?

JOY
	No. It's great. Let's meet there at eight.

ALLEN
	Happy's at eight! See ya!

They hang up, happy, perhaps even smitten.

CUT TO:

BLACK.
 



All movie scripts and screenplays on «Screenplays for You» site are intended for fair use only.
        




