
				GLADIATOR


					by

					David Franzoni






							FIRST DRAFT REVISED

							April 4, 1998






FADE IN:

EXT.  NEAR THE GERMAN FRONT - 180 A.D. - DAWN

The rising sun unveils steep hills and luxuriant mountains
untouched by man.  Snow flurries dart in the frigid air
and on the horizon CROWS gather.

EXT.  DIRT ROAD

A column of Praetorian Cavalry flank two enclosed wagons
as they rattle along a rock and log accordion road.  On
all sides a forest rises like some kind of primordial
soul:  limitless and dark.  With every step 'steam'
whooshes from the nostrils of the horses.

The first wagon halts as a Praetorian Guard jogs back.  He
straightens his tunic and helmet and raps on the wooden
door as the second wagon stops behind.  The door swings
aside and another Praetorian Guard leans out.

				1ST PRAETORIAN GUARD
		Sir, we must be getting near.

INT.  FIRST WAGON

LUCIUS AELIUS AURELIUS COMMODUS huddles in the back of the
wagon:  Dark hair, handsome, beard; as Commodus rises we
see he's a large, powerfully built young man and though
barely twenty years old he already has the caution and
arrogance of a Caesar.

Opposite A GAUNT MAN climbs from a heap of blankets:
GALEN of PERGAMUM, probably the most frozen, unhappy man
on earth.  The wagon is lined with pillows and blankets.
Baskets of bread and dried fruit are stacked in one corner
and an oil lamp hangs from a pivoting cleat like the
swinging lamp in a ship.

				2ND PRAETORIAN GUARD
		Caesar, we're nearly there.

EXT.  WAGON

Commodus steps down and pulls his cape up against the
bitter cold.  Galen follows, curiously overcoming his
natural hatred of discomfort.  TRIBUUS, burly Praetorian
Guard commander salutes Commodus and leads him to the edge
of a gully.  Tribuus is an old-timer for whom Commodus is
just another royal pain-in-the-ass.

THE GULLY IS BLACK WITH CROWS -- with their endless "CAW-
CAW-CAW" they feast on corpses and in the shadows below
ROMAN SOLDIERS bury dead comrades.  Compared with the
burnished perfection of the Praetorian Guards these
typical infantry grunts are grizzled and battered.

				COMMODUS
		Soldier!  What happened here!

A legionnaire stops working, spits, leans on his shovel so
he can shout up toward Tribuus and Commodus.  Galen squats
beside a corpse, fascinated.

				LEGIONNAIRE
		We had a battle!

				COMMODUS
		I can see that.  You leave your dead
		on the field?

				LEGIONNAIRE
		General Narcissus beat the Germans
		here and now the whole army is
		moving fast!  No time to let them
		get away!

THE SECOND WAGON --

as a twenty-five year old ATTRACTIVE YOUNG WOMAN opens the
door.  She is LUCILLA -- Commodus' sister.  Lucilla pulls
her coat tight against the wind.

				LUCILLA
		Where are we now, Commodus?  Can you
		see the camp?  My Gods!  The air is
		turning into ice!

				COMMODUS
		We're nearly there, Lucilla.

				LUCILLA
		That's what you told me two days
		ago!

				COMMODUS
		Will you please get back in your
		wagon?  And stay there?

				LUCILLA
		I'm tired of being stuck in that
		wagon.

Embarrassed by Commodus' childish spat with is sister,
Tribuus gestures to the 2nd Praetorian.

				TRIBUUS
		Soldier, help the Emperor's sister.

As a soldier jogs back up toward Lucilla Commodus looks
down at the legionnaire leaning on his shovel.

				COMMODUS
		Where is my father?

				TRIBUUS
		Where is the emperor and the army,
		soldier?

The legionnaire points up the road.  Commodus and Tribuus
return to the wagon.  Galen rolls the dead soldier over
and sticks his finger into a gaping chest wound, then
notices the legionnaire glaring at him.

				GALEN
		I'm a doctor.

The legionnaire studies him a second, then the corpse as
if giving a second opinion.

				LEGIONNAIRE
		Well, you're too late.

Galen pulls back in revulsion at his impudence.  He
scrambles to follow Commodus.  The legionnaire spits and
gets back to work.

EXT.  DIRT ROAD - DAWN

The wagon crests a hill with a precipitous view of the
valley and torches that seem to fill the lingering dark
far below.  The wagon makes straight for them.

AND COMMODUS...

Riding on a seat on the front of the wagon, wrapped to his
chin in a bearskin blanket -- absolutely set on catching
up with the army.

EXT.  GERMAN FRONT - VINDOBONA - 182 A.D. - NIGHT

On the edge of a forest sixty year old EMPEROR MARCUS
AURELIUS stands in the back of an unharnessed supply wagon
surrounded by a dark so black it's barely moved by blazing
torches.

A WOLF -- living symbol of Rome -- stand before the wagon
held on a leash by a battle-hardened SENIOR CENTURION:
SERVIS.

Marcus wears the purple robe of imperial power over his
leather and copper segmented upper body armor (LORICA
SEGMENTATA).  His breath clouds in the bitter cold; the
man is tired to the bone.

OPPOSITE STANDS THE ROMAN ARMY

This is the mighty army of the Danube, yet it seems like
these men -- buried in the shadows and as frozen and worn
as their leader -- have come to the very edge of the world
to be swallowed by this wilderness.

NUMIDIAN ARCHERS, tall Africans, out of place in this
freezing land, stand behind their leader -- JUBA -- who
has the whip-like body of a dancer.  Each carries his
recurve bow as if it were a delicate musical instrument.
Quivers of brightly colored arrows hang from their backs.

Field commanders -- CONTUBERNIUM -- stand by each row of
soldiers.  Less numerous, and above the Contubernium, are
the CENTURIONS, and at the front line of the mass of
cohorts are four TRIBUNES.

BEFORE THE ENTIRE ARMY

mounted on magnificent grey horses, are two LEGATE, the
overall commanding generals, wearing ornate lorica
segmentata.  The first Legatus is QUINTUS CLARUS, Rome
Army General:  fair-haired, fit, forty.  He has the face
of a boy.

The second is NARCISSUS MERIDAS, General, Spanish Gemina
Felix VII Army:  dark hair, proud and though about
Quintus' age his face is like a map of a soldiers's hard
life.  Narcissus' eyes are locked on Marcus like the eyes
of a long-suffering pilgrim on the icon of his single
hope.

THE WAGON

Just before Marcus is about to speak, Commodus steps into
the wagon looking out of breath.  Surprised, Marcus
embraces him and then Commodus stands behind his father
wrapped tightly in his bearskin robe.  He's trying to look
tough but unlike his father he's not used to this rigorous
life.

NARCISSUS & QUINTUS

swap looks as if Commodus were the last person they were
expecting...

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		Citizens!

Marcus' voice booms out tough and firm as if defying the
cold and dark.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		Today may be the last day in the
		life of Rome... For nine hundred
		years Rome has lived!  For nine
		hundred years architects,
		mathematicians, poets, and
		philosophers have fled within her
		arms sheltered from superstition,
		prejudice, hate, and every form of
		human cruelty.  We Romans have
		become a light in the barbarian
		night!

ON NARCISSUS

No trace of feeling, just his breath slowly clouding in
the frigid air.

AND MARCUS...

Seeming to look at each legionnaire as he speaks.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		For nine hundred years this one
		heart of humankind has been defended
		by the likes of Pompeii, Mark
		Anthony, Julius Caesar, The Divine
		Augustus, Claudius, Trajan,
		Hadrian, and my own father Antoninus
		Pius.  Now, it has come down to us!
		It has come down to this one day...

He leans forward on the rail of the wagon, a gesture that
seems to bring him closer to the men.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		Five years we've lived together, you
		and I, in a state of total war.  We
		have shared cold, rain, heat,
		bitterly watched the deaths of
		beloved friends.  We are not alone.
		Look around you!  Consuls and
		Senators have forsworn the luxuries
		of home and moved with us to the
		front to ensure that the
		administration of our government
		radiates from the source of her
		bravest citizens.

OUTSIDE A FIELD TENT

Stand SENATOR GAIUS and SENATOR FALCO wrapped to their
chins against the staggering cold.

Both men are in advanced middle age.  Gaius looks like a
stoic:  impassive, plainly dressed.  Falco wears an
expensive fur trimmed robe with gold and asbestos.
Flanking them are CONSULS and various OFFICIALS.  Lucilla
stands by Gaius and a very stately, attractive NUMIDIAN
WOMAN, MELA, Juba's wife.

				MARCUS AURELIUS (O.S.)
		The link between us and Rome is a
		solid chain of unbroken purpose!
		For nine hundred years the Roman
		Senate has stood one with the army
		in dignity and resolve!

AND COMMODUS...

watching the troops, seeming to weigh any response with
the utmost calculation.

AND MARCUS

eyes dead-ahead on the troops.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		But on this day I ask you to put
		those nine centuries down -- they're
		too heavy for us to carry into
		battle again!  So, we'll leave them
		here for the Senators to guard for
		us!

QUINTUS

allows himself a smile as the troops grin and laugh.  He
looks across at Narcissus who manages the faintest of
smiles -- a very serious man...

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		This day I want you to fight for the
		cold and the heat and the filth --
		and for all those friends who will
		never feel the sun on their faces
		again!  I want you to fight for you!
		For at the moment of battle you and
		you alone are Rome!

THE SOLDIERS...

Rank after disciplined rank:  not one sideways look, not
one sound...

AND MARCUS...

As his eyes pass from cohort to cohort.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		How quickly all things sordid and
		perishable in the universe
		disappear.  Yet throughout time the
		remembrance of great deeds grows
		only fresher bringing life again to
		those who dare perform them...
				(pause)
		Legate Narcissus Meridas and Legate
		Quintus Clarus, I must ask you and
		your legions for one more day out of
		nine centuries!  Will you give it to
		me?

The troops HOWL their support.  Marcus pulls his sword and
half turns aiming it behind him.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		There is the enemy of Rome!

Commodus steps forward to join his father and the uproar
grows.

NARCISSUS

removes his helmet as a sign of respect.  Now the stoic
veneer of his face cracks into a mixture of reverence and
perhaps even love for the emperor.

AND COMMODUS...

taking every single bit of this in.  He seems particularly
interested in Narcissus.

NARCISSUS & QUINTUS

Move their horses close and dismount.

				QUINTUS
		I see the emperor's little boy has
		finally caught up with the army.

				NARCISSUS
		Let's hope he doesn't start giving
		orders.

Servis approaches and salutes.  It starts to RAIN.

				SERVIS
		At your command, sir.

EXT.  FOREST - EARLY MORNING

In a howling RAINSTORM Felix Division breaks through the
dense woods like a moving human wall behind their
rectangular shields.

They're in the midst of MASS COMBAT -- spears, arrows and
stones crash off shields, taking out soldiers.

The ZING of arrows and WHOOSH of spears saturate the air.
Because there are no explosives EVERY SCREAM and ARROW
SHOT is HEARD.

NARCISSUS

leads his troops on foot in the thick of battle.  A
CONTUBERNIUM walks beside Narcissus tugged on by the
leashed WOLF MASCOT as painted GERMAN WARRIORS dart out of
the woods hurling spears.  NARCISSUS YELLS OVER THE SOUNDS
OF BATTLE, WIND AND RAIN.

				NARCISSUS
		Tribune!  The right flank is falling
		back!  If we lose the flank we're
		all dead!

The Tribune salutes and dashes off and Servis rushes in
from another direction.

				SERVIS
		Sir!  There's a fortification ahead!
		The Germans are waiting for us!
		Should we slow the men down?

AHEAD

Juba leads his Numidians in a fluid, disorderly formation
into the thickest part of the forest.  Just before he
dodges into the woods Juba locks eyes with Narcissus --
and he's GONE.

NARCISSUS --

jerks his shield up in time to stop an ARROW.  But a
LEGIONNAIRE is SLAMMED IN THE CHEST by another as sniper-
shots whiz in.

Now, from the distance comes the rolling roar of DRUMS and
HOWLS.  Then a horrendous THUNDERCLAP and a bolt of
lightning tears the lead grey sky.

				NARCISSUS
		Come on, Servis!  Forward!

Servis turns and runs down the front line as the storm
becomes more intense.  The YELLING and DRUMMING get
LOUDER...

THE GERMAN FORTIFICATION

A chaos of interlocked logs rimmed at the top with
sharpened stakes.  GERMAN WARRIORS SHOUT WAVING SPEARS
AND CLUBS.

THE FELIX DIVISION

scatters the German snipers and rearguard before it,
closing on the fortification.

				TRIBUNE
		Where the hell are the damned
		archers?

				NARCISSUS
		Don't worry about Juba; just keep
		our own damned troops moving!

German warriors loose an avalanche of rocks and spears.

				NARCISSUS
		Tortoise!

				TRIBUNE
		Tortoise!  Form a tortoise!

As the call echoes legionnaires furiously overlap their
shields on all sides and overhead forming a perfect BOX
just as the stones and spears crash against them...

INSIDE THE TORTOISE

rocks slam the wall of interlocked shields with ear-
splitting resonance.  But the tortoise holds.

OUTSIDE

soon as the barrage stops the Germans unleash FIGHTING
MASTIFFS.  The dogs tear into the legionnaires.  One leaps
at Narcissus and he kills it with a single chop of his
Spatha sword.

				SERVIS
		Here they come!

German warriors charge the shields as the legionnaires
level their spears.  Singing and screaming the warriors
IMPALE THEMSELVES ON THE SPEARS and grasp the shafts.  A
SECOND WAVE charges the line on the heels of the first.

THE LEGIONNAIRES --

In a well rehearsed movement twist their spears releasing
the tips.  As the dying warriors drop with the quick-
release spear tips embedded in their bodies, the Romans
reverse their spears over the top and -- no problem:
Roman spears have points on BOTH ENDS.  So the German
second wave is met by an intact position.

Still they power into the line chopping at the Roman
shields with axes.

FAR BEHIND...

a legionnaire blows a piercing note on a brass horn and a
second, thin line of legionnaires APPEARS OUT OF THE
FOREST.  Narcissus turns, yelling to a contubernium behind
him.

				NARCISSUS
		Answer that signal!

A red 'flag' on a long pole goes up answering the trumpet,
and the line of the fresh cohort parts in segments
revealing ONAGERS -- portable catapults -- and SCORPIONS
-- powerful precision-fire crossbows that launch javelins.

THE ARTILLERY FIRES...

cannonball-size shot driven at a hundred miles an hour rip
over the heads of Narcissus' troopers and slam against the
fort walls.

ONAGER CREWS

reload with incredible speed from wagons filled with hand-
picked rocks -- some bear SCRAWLED EPITHETS essentially
the Latin equivalent of "EAT THIS HANS!"  Onagers launch
barrage after barrage, their backs leaping off the ground
like recoiling 45 millimeter field guns.

SCORPION OPERATORS

picks their targets.  The Germans are leveled by a sheet
of scorpion javelins as their crude log fortification
splinters under the onager barrage.  The Germans are being
pulverized by superior technology.

THE WHOLE GERMAN ARMY --

led by tall GREY BEARDED MAN, pours from the log blockade
and hurls itself against the Roman line.

Again the Romans are staggered as the Germans collapse
more of their shields, battering through the front line
with clubs and axes.

NARCISSUS --

fights desperately refusing to give ground.  A German
rears up from behind and slams Narcissus in the back with
a club and HE GOES DOWN.

Narcissus is nearly trampled as another GERMAN WARRIOR
throws himself on Narcissus holding his sword arm about to
kill him with a club -- there's a blur of fur and blood as
the ROMAN WOLF LEAPS INTO THE WARRIOR'S FACE.

Narcissus lurches back to his feet and seeing he's in the
midst of the whole German army he goes wild.  Yelling and
slashing out with his sword and the knife-edge top of his
shield, in seconds he's drenched with blood.

LIKE SOME FANTASTIC ROMANTIC PAINTING --

Narcissus climbs onto a HEAP OF BODIES flashing his sword
with the snarling Wolf of Rome at his side.

CENTURIONS AND LEGIONNAIRES --

see this supernatural vision of their leader battling for
life --

				SERVIS
		Romulus!  The gods of Rome are
		fighting with general Narcissus!

Others join the cry as more legionnaires turn and there's
an irresistible surge of the army back toward Narcissus.

NARCISSUS

joined by Servis, then another, then two Contubernium,
then ten legionnaires... the legionnaires fight
desperately to hold their ground around Narcissus.

Then with a sound of a hundred out-of-tune violins the
Germans are SWEPT FROM BEHIND BY ARROWS.

JUBA'S NUMIDIANS

line the edge of the forest four deep pouring arrows into
the Germans.  Juba stands on a log in front shouting
PIERCING SING-SONG ORDERS easily heard over the screams of
battle.

NARCISSUS & HIS TROOPS

DIVE behind their shields for cover from the cloudburst of
arrows.

Arrows fired by almighty recurve bows hit the Germans
with the power of .44 magnum rounds:  arms splinter like
twigs; shields are nailed to chests; skulls explode.

The Germans turn and charge the Numidians but they may as
well hurl themselves against a machine gun nest as they're
mowed-down in whole lines.  They hurtle back in disorder
into the forest.

THE ROMANS

lower their shields.  Narcissus catches a fast smile from
Juba, then jumps to his feet...

				NARCISSUS
		Come on men!  Forward!

RIVER BANK

The retreating German army spills out of the forest
following their leader into a shallow narrows, Narcissus
and his division on their heels.

ABOVE

on the opposite bank is a single Roman on horse back.
It's Quintus.  He draws his sword and spurs ahead -- then
right behind him rush his fresh ROME COHORTS.

THE TWO ROMAN ARMIES --

crash into the Germans in the middle of the river --
throwing aside his shield and holding his sword with two
hands Narcissus chops his way into the enemy with a fury.

Wild chaos of horrendous fighting in knee-deep water --
spray, blood, flashing swords and flying spears as men
desperately kill to stay alive.

Then the two Roman armies close like a fist and the
surviving Germans squeeze through the fingers in disarray.

NARCISSUS & QUINTUS

meet in the middle of the river and at that moment the
legionnaires realize they've won.  They howl and stab at
the heavens with their swords to intimidate the gods.

Narcissus pulls off his lorica segmentata which literally
drools blood and heaves it into the water.  Then in the
vortex of the cheering cohorts, he and Quintus embrace.

FROM ABOVE

The Danube runs RED...

EXT.  ROMAN CAMP - VINDOBONA - NEAR DUSK

Surrounded by cheering legions Narcissus rides his grey
horse slowly into camp.  Servis walks ahead leading the
beloved wolf mascot on a leash.  Quintus rides beside
Narcissus, but it's clear all this adulation is for
Narcissus.

Narcissus dismounts and finally the crowd parts revealing
Commodus outside the Roman headquarters flanked by slaves
and Praetorian Guard.  Commodus strides forward and
embraces him as a cheer goes up from the soldiers.

				COMMODUS
		Welcome back from your great triumph
		Narcissus Meridas.  My father sends
		his heart felt praise.  Sadly,
		Marcus is in dark humors -- nothing
		to worry about, but he needs rest.
		Likely just the weather.

				NARCISSUS
		Respectfully Caesar, Quintus and I
		must report.

				COMMODUS
		Of course, but not now.  However, if
		he continues to be unwell, you may
		report to me.

A challenging look from Commodus -- clearly Narcissus is
not in the mood to report to this boy.  Quintus steps in.

				QUINTUS
		Gladly, Caesar.  And, if you'd like
		we can take you for a tour of the
		front at first light.

				COMMODUS
		I'm certain father will be in better
		humors by then.  Now, honor us with
		your presence at dinner.  I'll join
		you as soon as I see my father's
		physician.

For a second Commodus eyes the shouting army... it makes
him NERVOUS.  Then he turns to enter the building.

				NARCISSUS
		What the hell was all that about?

				QUINTUS
		What the hell do you think it was
		about?  There's nothing an unproved
		heir to the throne likes less than
		glaring competence in others.

				NARCISSUS
		Why don't we try to keep politics
		out of the conversation.

				QUINTUS
		Well, we can try...

INT.  ROMAN HQ - EARLY MORNING

Inside the single large building at the Vindobona central
base, a wraith-like FORTUNE TELLER stands with her eyes
closed, hand on Falco's head.

TRIBUNES and high ranking HANGERS-ON bask near a blazing
hearth like over-fed dogs.  Senator Gaius sits apart near
Juba and his wife Mela.  All are fixated on Falco.

				FORTUNE TELLER
		... a great man:  great of birth --
		great of girth!
				(laughs all around)
		Your fate in flame and bronze is
		wrought... the rest in haze is
		sought.

				FALCO
		Smoke from the fire no doubt!

She opens her eyes and Falco hands her a coin.

				NARCISSUS
		Fire and bronze -- symbols of strong
		character, Senator!

All turn toward Narcissus and Quintus.

				FALCO
		General Narcissus, it's your turn!
		Everyone in this room would love to
		know your future.  Go on, ask him if
		he'll stand for the Senate!

Applause as Narcissus catches a smirk from Quintus.

				NARCISSUS
		No future-telling, please, I've been
		terrified enough for one day.

				LUCILLA
		Narcissus!  Terrified?  You?  The
		only thing he's scared of is me.

Lucilla greets Narcissus with an embarrassingly intimate
embrace.  Looks like she's been hitting the sauce pretty
good.

				GAIUS
		Slave!  Wine and meat for our
		generals!  The saviors of Rome!

				FALCO
		Judging from your adoring troops and
		what we heard, Narcissus, you are
		personally responsible for our
		victory.

Lucilla hangs onto Narcissus' hand taking him around the
room like he was her date.

				LUCILLA
		You know our two most senior
		Senators:  Gaius Cantus and Falco
		Verus?

				NARCISSUS
		Only from a distance.

				GAIUS
		Well let's not be so distant,
		general.  Now that this war is
		ending Rome needs good men off the
		battlefield as well.

				JUBA
		The Wolf of Rome fought beside him.
		I saw it with my own eyes.

Narcissus looks at Juba as if to say 'thanks a lot.'

				LUCILLA
		You see?  The Gods favor you for
		greatness!  Tell us about it -- all
		about it.

				VOICES
		Yes/Tell us/Tell all!

				NARCISSUS
		The truth is I got into a little
		trouble and when the army came to
		rescue me the German counterattack
		broke around us.  An example of
		being in precisely the wrong place
		at exactly the right time.
				(off their laughs)
		It was Juba and his archers who
		finally got them running.  Then
		Quintus arrived with the Rome
		legions just in time to cut off
		their retreat.

Commodus and Galen suddenly step into the light; it's
unclear how long Commodus may have been listening in the
doorway.  Everyone rises...

				COMMODUS
		Narcissus Meridas, you win the
		battle and deny you had any hand it
		it.  But if we had lost, you would
		have taken complete responsibility.
		Senators, Rome needs more such
		models of humility and courage.
				(pause)
		My father sends regrets that he will
		not join us after all as he
		continues to be unwell.

Commodus reaches over to fill Lucilla's cup which is
nearly brimming.

				COMMODUS
		More wine, sister?  Surely you can
		drink more than that.

				LUCILLA
		I was suddenly thinking about going
		to bed.

				COMMODUS
		Oh, stay...
				(that was an order)
		Don't you want to join the chorus of
		praises for Narcissus' glory?  Just
		remember, he is a married man.

				NARCISSUS
		Do you expect Marcus to be well
		enough by morning for an audience?

				COMMODUS
		That's difficult to say, general.

				NARCISSUS
		Perhaps, Master Galen, you may say.

				GALEN
		It's difficult to name a time...

				COMMODUS
		May I remind everyone that Master
		Galen is the finest medical
		philosopher in the Empire and his
		detailed assessment of the Emperor
		is delicate and confidential and is
		the business of the immediate family
		alone.

				NARCISSUS
		I would venture, with all respect:
		the Emperor's health is the business
		of every soul in the empire.

				GAIUS
		Yes!  The days of Imperial
		Prerogative and disdain for the
		Senate are over -- thanks to your
		father!  Now report to the Senate,
		Master Galen:  what is Marcus'
		state?

				COMMODUS
		Report, Master Galen, by all means.
		The Senate demands it...

				GALEN
		We are talking simply about a
		disturbance of the hues.  Nothing
		more.  In precisely one hour I will
		analyze the Emperor's bile and then
		my assistants and I will stand by in
		an unfailing vigil until his fever
		breaks.  Now with your permission
		Caesar, Senators?  I must return to
		my patient.

Commodus gestures him out as if he were just amused.

				COMMODUS
		One doctor now knows his place in
		the empire.  Congratulations,
		general, your victory seems to
		inspire courage everywhere.

Quintus stops flirting with Lucilla's slaves and starts
paying close attention to the developing dynamics.

				NARCISSUS
		The battle was won, today, and I
		prefer to believe it was a gift of
		Janus, the eldest God of Rome.  God
		of my ancestors.

				FALCO
		God of passages and changes?

				NARCISSUS
		I believe we are arriving in an
		enlightened age; an age of peace
		that will bring Rome her greatest
		glory.  Thanks to Marcus Aurelius.

				FALCO
		You know, general, there is a Gate
		of Janus in Rome which is only
		closed in time of peace.  Sadly, it
		has remained open for three hundred
		years.

				NARCISSUS
		I've read of it.

				FALCO
		But have never been?

				NARCISSUS
		My only visits to Rome, Senator,
		have been through books.  But the
		war's over, time to close the door
		of war once and for all.

				COMMODUS
		Then you'd be out of a job.

				NARCISSUS
		Gladly Caesar.

				COMMODUS
		Or perhaps into a new one.  But
		here's to your God and the courage
		of our legions...

				GAIUS
		And the man who gives them this
		extraordinary courage.

Gaius stands and raises his cup.  But Quintus is amused to
see him get as close to Narcissus as he can -- nearly
hiding behind him.

				COMMODUS
		Quite so.  Narcissus and his
		courageous men; may they live long
		to serve Rome...

				LUCILLA
		And Caesar!  Let's not forget to
		serve Caesar!

Falco in turn moves to stand near Commodus.

				FALCO
		They are one and the same my lady.
		Which is why we senior Senators have
		chosen to be here on the front to
		share the hardships of our
		courageous Emperor -- Marcus
		Aurelius and his son -- may the gods
		protect them!

				LUCILLA
		Oh, yes, my father is a raving
		genius -- poet, essayist,
		philosopher, warrior... It's a
		wonder he doesn't drift off like a
		cloud he's so damned ethereal.
		'Marcus Aurelius Etherealus'... But
		he should cast his divine eyes
		earthward once in a while and see
		how fallible some of his decisions
		have been!  Of course I don't mean
		you, Commodus -- gods know you're
		perfect.  As far as sharing in his
		glory and suffering -- well, I
		certainly didn't want to be here.
		Isn't that true, darling brother?
		Commodus, I believe, was afraid that
		if I stayed in Rome I might foment a
		rebellion!  Seize power for myself!

Commodus glares at Lucilla as she trails off in laughter.
Mela decides it's time to rescue Lucilla from herself.
She rises and crosses to sit beside her.

				MELA
		If you men are going to talk
		politics leave us out of it.

				JUBA
		She's not so bashful about politics
		when we're alone.

				MELA
		Only when it concerns Numidia.  And,
		we're far from home so I'll play the
		good Roman woman and listen --
		perhaps Lucilla we could play that
		part together.

				COMMODUS
		What do you say, Narcissus?  Where
		are you in this great new balance
		between the Emperor or the Senate?

				GAIUS
		Are you for the Senate, Narcissus
		Meridas?  Or do you back the
		emperor?

				NARCISSUS
		I back Rome against all her enemies
		-- if that answer disappoints you,
		I'm not a politician...

				COMMODUS
		Oh, but with the army behind you,
		you could become extremely
		political.  Not a Republican by any
		chance?

				FALCO
		Be as brave here as you are on the
		battlefield...

				QUINTUS
		In the presence of such fearless
		senators there's little need for
		loyal soldiers to speculate on
		politics.

				COMMODUS
		Ah, Quintus famous for his perfect
		timing.  But we want to know what
		the hero of the Danube thinks.

Dead silence.  Every face in the room turns to Narcissus.

				NARCISSUS
		A republican is a man who strives
		to create equality among all
		classes.  At the core he's a man who
		believes in doing what's right.

				GAIUS
		The trouble is defining exactly what
		'right' is.

				NARCISSUS
		We all know what right is, Senator.

				COMMODUS
		I would say there's nothing more
		dangerous than a man who knows what
		'right' is.

				NARCISSUS
		The dangerous man, Caesar, is the
		man who doesn't care.

Stony silence.  A SLAVE enters.

				SLAVE
		The emperor is awake.  He asks to
		see his generals.

INT.  MARCUS AURELIUS' ROOM - LATER

Marcus Aurelius sits up in his bed and watches with a
seasoned campaigner's eye as Narcissus and Quintus lean
over a large, beautifully hand-drawn map.  Commodus sits
by his side, the attentive son.

				NARCISSUS
		Felix Army controls the narrows.
		Four cohorts from Quintus' legion
		hold the opposite shore and once we
		repair the German fort we'll be able
		to reinforce and supply them at
		will.

Seeing he's having trouble seeing, Narcissus holds the map
up for him.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		Can the Germans cross up stream on
		boats or float bridges?

				QUINTUS
		Not through those rapids.  They're
		disorganized and their army barely
		exists.

				NARCISSUS
		But they're not destroyed, not yet.

				COMMODUS
		Do we really need to repair this
		fort?  It seems like an expensive
		undertaking.  I propose we burn it
		to the ground.  That way if the
		Germans cross the Danube here there
		will be nothing to help them build
		an offensive position.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		Commodus, it's we who are going on
		the offensive.

				NARCISSUS
		The fort helps position us for a
		final invasion in the spring when
		they're most vulnerable.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		Commodus -- listen to Narcissus,
		listen to the man who has never lost
		a battle for Rome!  You're young
		with years ahead of you before you
		gain the experience to wear the
		purple!

Commodus visibly reacts, but swallows his anger.  Marcus
sits back, weakened from the exchange.

				COMMODUS
		Father, you have to rest...

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		I'm sorry... all of you, excuse me.

They all make shallow bows and turn to leave, but Marcus
holds Narcissus' hand.  Quintus sees and politely leaves,
but Commodus only goes reluctantly.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		I want you to start your work for
		the last phase of the campaign.

				NARCISSUS
		I will, Marcus.  But you're going to
		be well enough to direct it
		yourself.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		I've made so many mistakes,
		Narcissus.  We all put off the very
		last duties of our lives because
		we're afraid of admitting when our
		lives are over.

				NARCISSUS
		There's no reason to say that.
		Everyone knows you're going to be
		well.  I had Servis groom your horse
		for a triumphal visit to the front
		at first light.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		Servis made it through again?

				NARCISSUS
		He's like you, sir, too tough for
		the Gods to swallow.

Marcus laughs and looks like he's better just talking with
Narcissus.  But now he holds Narcissus' hand with both of
his.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		If I'd ever had a sign that you
		wanted to rule I would have... no,
		again, it's my own bullheadedness.
		Narcissus, I should have adopted you
		years ago.  And now the Gods are
		begging me to make you my son!

				NARCISSUS
		Commodus is just a young man, he'll
		learn what you had to learn.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		It's not because he's young, it's
		because he's ignorant and arrogant.
		His sister is a better man.  That's
		why I have undertaken to begin
		sweeping changes in the relationship
		between the emperor and the Senate.

				NARCISSUS
		So I understand.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		Everyone talking about it?  I
		wouldn't wonder.  All I seek is a
		genuine balance of power between the
		Emperor and the Senate.  Thus I have
		transferred legal power -- which was
		theirs to begin with -- back to the
		Senators.  This includes a shared
		right to taxation too but some bite
		in the plan.  It's a start, only a
		start.  If the Emperor and the
		Senate can share power then the
		people will be ready to take their
		share.  This means Commodus has to
		bend; does he strike you as that
		type?

				NARCISSUS
		You're too hard on him.  He is a
		strong young man, with you as his
		guide...

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		A man should be upright, not be kept
		upright.
				(pause)
		History shows us that a good general
		is quick to recognize opportunities
		-- even if it means making a
		complete about face at the last
		minute.  I want you to consider
		becoming my heir.

				NARCISSUS
		Marcus, you honor me, but I'm a
		soldier, politics scare the hell out
		of me.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		The Senators admire you.

				NARCISSUS
		They fear me.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		They fear change.  The new Caesar
		must be honest enough to know when
		the emperorship is no longer
		feasible.  You could be the one, the
		Emperor, the man who oversees the
		rebirth of the Republic.

				NARCISSUS
		I'll do anything in my power to help
		you restore the Republic but I can't
		be that power.

The door creeps open and Galen slips in followed by
Commodus.

				GALEN
		General; the emperor needs my full
		attention.  Please?  He must have
		his elixirs.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		Don't waste time.  Finish our
		work... Swear!

				NARCISSUS
		I swear, Marcus.

Marcus smiles, but grips his hand.

				MARCUS AURELIUS
		I'm going to miss riding the lines
		with you, Narcissus...

HALLWAY

Commodus walks Narcissus to the door himself.

				COMMODUS
		You and my father have become very
		close.  Perhaps one day I may say
		the same for us.

				NARCISSUS
		You flatter me, Caesar.

				COMMODUS
		Being as close, I'm certain you've
		noticed what we all have noticed.

				NARCISSUS
		Caesar?

				COMMODUS
		That this illness has clouded his
		mind.

He shuts the door with an ominous finality.

EXT.  MARCUS AURELIUS' QUARTERS - NIGHT

Narcissus turns and runs straight into Lucilla who's been
waiting for him.  Her reaction is to put her arms around
his neck and look up into his smiling face.  But he's just
amused.

				LUCILLA
		I thought all good generals were
		quick to recognize opportunities.

				NARCISSUS
		Sneaking around with your brother?

				LUCILLA
		Without him.  He'd be weeping if he
		overheard that.  Well?  The idea of
		you as my adopted brother is very...
		exciting.

				NARCISSUS
		I'm not fit for the job and as a
		matter of fact I'm not taking the
		job.

				LUCILLA
		Why do you keep playing at being so
		humble?  It's a little embarrassing.

				NARCISSUS
		Why do you play at being drunk?

				LUCILLA
		How do you know I am playing?  Well,
		the clown is always harmless.  Isn't
		that right?  And how did you ever
		get to know me so well?  The last we
		spent any time together I was
		fourteen.  I think you know me
		better than my father.
				(pause)
		He's going to die, isn't he?

				NARCISSUS
		I don't believe that.  He's got the
		best doctor in the world and a will
		of iron.  You know we're preparing
		for a full-blown invasion of
		Germany.

				LUCILLA
		Of course I know -- who do you think
		is paying for it?  The Emperor
		himself, didn't you know?  Why do
		you think Commodus came rushing up
		to the front?  Burning patriotism?
		Filial love?  He wants to be sure
		when he takes over there's enough
		cash left in the treasury to...
		play Emperor.  Watch out for him,
		Narcissus; he's inexperienced,
		but... be careful.

INT.  NARCISSUS' TENT - NIGHT

Narcissus painfully pulls his toga over his head and for
the first time we really get to see his battle wounds.
All the dressings have bled through.  He dips fresh
bandages in a bowl of hot water... then reaches back and
peels off a dressing.

FIVE LITTLE FIRED TABLET PORTRAITS OF NARCISSUS'
ANCESTORS... each in an individual stand on a tiny alter.
Narcissus' table is set with five colorful wooden plates
with food and drink for each.  Dressed again, he not so
much as prays to the tablets as carries on a conversation.

				NARCISSUS
		Postumas, Lilliana, Guyan,
		Agrippina, Lartes.  The battle is
		won, my family.  Of course, I'm sure
		you were there with me, Guyan.
		Grandmother always said you loved a
		good fight.  Lilliana, I set some
		local fruit at your place tonight.
		They're not bad.  And don't tell me
		you don't like exotic food.

He lights incense that goes up fast seeming to flood the
tent with smoke.

				NARCISSUS
		Welcome to the table of life, my
		ancestors.

Narcissus hoists his arm onto a folding stool and leans
his head on his arm, exhaustion finally taking over.  In
the dark and the smoke of the incense he falls asleep.

THE ANCESTORS...

There's a moment when their faces seem somehow alive in
the ghostly, shimmering smoke.

				VOICE
		Daddy... Daddy!  Daddy wake up!

NARCISSUS

slowly focuses on the portraits in the muted dawn light.
In front of the portraits is the beaming face of a YOUNG
GIRL.  She's his six year old daughter THEMIS, a black-
haired, dark eyed beauty.

				NARCISSUS
		Themis!

She holds a DOLL up in his face:  it's a doll dressed up
like a Roman General.

				THEMIS
		This is you, daddy.

He picks her up and spins around to find his wife SELENE
with their older daughter MANTO.  Now the others rush to
embrace him.  A thirty-year old male house-hold slave --
LINDO -- enters carrying woven bags of personal
belongings.

				NARCISSUS
		Selene!  Manto!  Lindo, too!  Oh,
		gods... how did you get here?

EXT.  CAMP - NEAR THE DANUBE - MORNING

As the family walks along the edge of a slow moving,
peaceful bend of the great river, Themis holds her doll
for Narcissus' approval.

Lindo walks close; though a slave he's clearly part of the
family.

Narcissus takes the toy likeness, makes sure his daughter
sees he's giving it a serious scrutiny.

				NARCISSUS
		He's very realistic.

				SELENE
		Isn't the helmet magnificent?

				THEMIS
		I made the plume from a quail
		feather.

				NARCISSUS
		Much more colorful than the ones we
		wear.  And, of course, less dented.

				MANTO
		Father, is it true the Germans are
		just fighting to protect their land?

Narcissus and Selene swap a fast look.

				SELENE
		Well, you wanted the girls to have
		the best teachers.

				NARCISSUS
		Greeks?

				SELENE
		Athenians...

That sounds even worse.

				MANTO
		Teacher says that the divine Julius
		used the Germans as a pretext to
		dissolve the Republic.

				NARCISSUS
		Did he now...?

				MANTO
		And that the Germans are only
		struggling to keep their honor and
		the ways of their people.  And that
		throughout history Rome has always
		been the aggressor.

				NARCISSUS
		Well, remind teacher:  once upon a
		time it was the Hebrews over the
		Philistines; the Babylonians over
		the Hebrews; Egypt over Babylon; the
		Greeks over the Trojans; Persians
		over the Greeks; Etruscans over the
		Latins; Sabines over the Latins and
		Etruscans.  Now it's Rome over
		everyone and I don't know when the
		world has known such peace.

				MANTO
		I can't wait to tell my teachers all
		that!

Can see Narcissus feels better about this already.

				NARCISSUS
		What about their philosophy lessons?

				SELENE
		They're studying with Cynics.

				NARCISSUS
		Of course...

				THEMIS
		Daddy, Lindo says these forest are
		haunted by sprites and spirits!  Can
		we go to bed early so we can meet
		them in our dreams?

Narcissus and Selene catch Lindo's smile...

INT.  TENT - LATE NIGHT

Narcissus and Selene making love in the dark.  From
outside come distant lightning flashes followed by the
hollow roll of far off thunder.

Finally Selene collapses against Narcissus, but it looks
like she could go on for another hour if she just weren't
simply exhausted.  They laugh quietly at their passion.

				SELENE
		You need to come home!

				NARCISSUS
		I can see that...

				SELENE
		The battle is over.  The war is
		over.  You've won!

				NARCISSUS
		If you win, you know, you have to
		stay.  It's the losers who get to go
		home.  Besides, I'm not so sure it
		is over.  Centurions report enemy
		scouts probing our lines.

Selene sighs, then gets an idea and slides out of bed; she
returns with a long necked jug.

				SELENE
		Look what we've brought you all the
		way from Spain.

He looks at the jug and the label.

				NARCISSUS
		This is our oil from our estates?

				SELENE
		I've been overseeing production
		myself for the past three years,
		you'll be surprised at how wonderful
		our oil has become.

She pushed the bottle neck between her naked breasts and
smiles.

				SELENE
		If you want to know, you'll have to
		come and get it.

Narcissus puts his hands on the base of the bottle, then
lets his hand slide to her breast.  But she moves the
bottle aside, pulls him close -- but he snatches the
bottle and gives it a good look.

				NARCISSUS
		Very fancy.  Did you design the
		bottle?

				SELENE
		Who else?  I'm the one who runs the
		estates while you're here risking
		everything we have for the glory of
		Rome!  Or for the glory of you!

				NARCISSUS
		I'm a soldier -- we're at war.  I
		can't stay home tending the damned
		olive groves?

				SELENE
		We don't need your help we're doing
		great on our own.

Narcissus cools down, sees this is going a bad way.

				NARCISSUS
		I want to come home, of course I do,
		I'd have to be mad not to want that.
		It's just that Marcus trusts me.

				SELENE
		Let him trust Quintus.

				NARCISSUS
		Quintus is overly idealistic.

				SELENE
		I never knew a more idealistic man
		than you.

				NARCISSUS
		Me?  Well, I believe in Rome...
		you'd have to after what I've seen,
		how people outside the empire treat
		each other.

				SELENE
		I don't even want to imagine the
		things you've seen...

				NARCISSUS
		What you don't want to imagine is
		the things I've done.

Silence.  All the while they've been talking the storm has
been slowly approaching, thunder beating ominously closer.
Selene embraces him.

Suddenly Manto and Themis leap into bed with them and push
beneath their bearskin blanket.  Themis is crying and
Manto is shaken.

				SELENE
		Girls!  What's the trouble?  Manto?

				MANTO
		Lindo was right!  This is a haunted
		place!  The night spirits came to
		us...

				THEMIS
		We had horrible nightmares!

Lightning flashes and thunder drops like a bomb as the
storm settles on the camp.  The girls pull themselves
close to Selene and Narcissus.

INT.  NARCISSUS' TENT - LATE AFTERNOON

Themis and Manto help Selene and Lindo pack the last of
several baskets.

				NARCISSUS
		Don't stop to visit -- take the
		children straight home and I'll
		follow as soon as I can.

				THEMIS
		Tomorrow?

				NARCISSUS
		As soon as I can.

				THEMIS
		On your honor as a Roman officer,
		daddy?

				NARCISSUS
		On my honor as your daddy...

One of Narcissus personal guards enters.

				PERSONAL GUARD
		Sir, Caesar Commodus and Quintus
		Clarus to see you.

				NARCISSUS
		Tell them to come in!

Commodus and Quintus enter as the guard returns to his
post.  Quintus sets his helmet down.  He's wearing his
lorica segmentata.

				QUINTUS
		Selene, girls.

Commodus nods as Selene motions for the children to sit
quietly.

				QUINTUS
		Marcus Aurelius has died.

				COMMODUS
		He left us at dawn.

Everyone stunned.  Selene embraces the children.
Narcissus slowly sits back at the table.

				COMMODUS
		Please accept my deepest sympathy as
		you were one of his most loyal
		officers.

Narcissus takes out four scrolls, hands them to Commodus.

				NARCISSUS
		These were my latest reports to
		Marcus.

But Quintus takes them.

				COMMODUS
		I want to extend my hand in
		gratitude for what you have done for
		my father and Rome, and to offer my
		friendship.  The next few weeks will
		be trying.  As you know Marcus
		wisely or unwisely laid the
		foundations for greater Senatorial
		control and there are those likely
		to take advantage of his good
		intentions.  Will you join me in
		strengthening my government?  As you
		know your support, your friendship
		at this critical moment would
		silence a dangerous faction.

While they speak Quintus unrolls the documents.  He's not
happy reading them.

				QUINTUS
		Serious stuff...

				NARCISSUS
		Centurions on both sides of the
		river are convinced the Germans will
		try one last offensive.  They've got
		nothing to lose and it's so very
		like them.

Commodus and Quintus swap a fast look.

				COMMODUS
		I'm ordering a general stand-down in
		preparation for withdrawal back
		across the Danube.

				NARCISSUS
		We have to stop the Germans now!

				QUINTUS
		We must obey our emperor and the
		Senate.

				COMMODUS
		I met with Falco, and the Senators
		have agreed to call for a truce with
		the Germans.

				NARCISSUS
		Forgive me, Caesar, but do two
		Senator represent the mood of the
		whole Senate or the will of the
		Roman people?  Besides, every truce
		we make with the Germans they break!

				COMMODUS
		They won't break this one.

				NARCISSUS
		Apparently my opinion wasn't needed.

				QUINTUS
		Everyone knew you would have been
		outspoken against this deal.

				NARCISSUS
		What deal?

				QUINTUS
		Rome is going to pay an allotment to
		the German tribes on an annual
		basis.

Narcissus reacts as if he'd been stabbed.

				NARCISSUS
		Rome is going to pay tribute -- like
		a defeated nation begging for mercy?
		Have you told your troops that?

				QUINTUS
		My troops don't make policy.

				NARCISSUS
		Well, they die for it!

				SELENE
		Narcissus -- it's over!  Pack and
		come home with us...

				COMMODUS
		You have a wise woman by your side.

				NARCISSUS
		On his death bed I promised Marcus I
		would complete our work here.  The
		Senate may be vacillating, but I
		have the army behind me.  I'm taking
		half a cohort and restocking that
		fort.

				QUINTUS
		I can't let you do that.

Narcissus turns and for the first time really looks
Quintus over.

				NARCISSUS
		In you armor, Quintus?  Is that how
		you come to visit a friend?

They stare at each other.  Narcissus goes for his sword
just as LEGIONNAIRES rush in.  Commodus backs against the
tent wall.  Narcissus heaves one soldier into the
furniture, fells another with a chair and grabs his
sword...

				QUINTUS
		Don't kill him!

Three soldiers tackle Narcissus to the floor.  Soldiers
grab Selene and the children -- Lindo reaches for a knife
and he's immediately killed.  The children SCREAM...

				SELENE
		Narcissus...!

INT.  CELL - NIGHT

Narcissus sits in the dirt leaning against the log wall,
his hands chained in front of him.  The door opens and
four heavily armed Praetorian Guard enter.

EXT.  CELL - NIGHT

Narcissus stands in the pouring rain facing Falco, Gaius,
Tribuus and several tribunes.  Four slaves hold a canvas
over Commodus and the others -- as they talk Narcissus
continues to be drenched.

				NARCISSUS
		Where is my family?

				COMMODUS
		Cooperate and they will be returned
		to your estate.  I could have
		executed you.

				NARCISSUS
		And my army would have thrown your
		body into the Danube.

They glare at each other in the dark; Commodus' eyes seem
to burn in the lamp light.

				COMMODUS
		The army is a problem.  They love
		you.  You have led them from victory
		to victory in the name of Rome and
		they love you.  And after all,
		you're just a hothead acting from a
		misguided sense of loyalty -- who
		could fault you for that?
				(nods to Falco)
		Thus have I reached a compromise
		with the Senate over your fate:
		instead of executing you, I'm
		sending you to Rome where you will
		be tried...

				NARCISSUS
		On what charge?

				FALCO
		Insubordination.  To the Emperor...
		and the Senate.

				COMMODUS
		Quintus will tell the army that you
		are being called to Rome to
		celebrate your victory.  They will
		hear that you are living in luxury.
		He will let them feel you have
		betrayed them for the good life.
		And soon the army won't even
		remember your name.

All turn and leave but Gaius.  Two soldiers hold Narcissus
while a third goes through the process of chaining his
wrists.

				NARCISSUS
		The Senate too?

				GAIUS
		The moment you returned from the
		battle your options were clear.  If
		you are a friend to neither side,
		legate, you must be an enemy to
		both.  We needed to know what you
		believed.

				NARCISSUS
		I hope you live to see what I
		believe...

At that the soldiers drag Narcissus toward a wagon with
tiny barred windows.

INT.  PRISON WAGON - NIGHT

In the dark Narcissus is chained to a bench and the door
slams shut.

EXT.  PRISON WAGON WHEEL - DAY

The thick spoke wood wheel slams over rocks and ruts of a
primitive forest road.

INT.  WAGON - DAY

Narcissus jars awake and flies swarm off his face.  A
GERMAN PRISONER is chained to the wall, a rag-wrapped
chain around his mouth as a gag.  His head nods forward;
could be asleep, could be dead.  Narcissus leans forward
and is stopped by his own chains.  He glares at the rusted
iron links as if they were the most unbearable insult.

				JUBA
		Narcissus!

At the far end of the wagon is Juba.  Looks like he's been
worked over pretty good.  They stare at each other.

				JUBA
		You on your way to trial, too,
		general?  Or do you think they've
		already had our trial?

				NARCISSUS
		Why you?

				JUBA
		My loyalties... were in doubt.

				NARCISSUS
		Fools to let us both live; we'll be
		our own best witnesses at our trial.

				JUBA
		That's what worries me...

Suddenly hands LURCH FOR HIS THROAT but are stopped by
chains.  It's the gagged German.  He drops his arms, but
keeps his eyes lowered staring at the Imperial Roman Eagle
around Narcissus' neck.

									FADE TO:

EXT.  ROME - DAY

Wearing a flowing toga and golden laurel, Commodus rides
into Rome in a military chariot through the Arch of Titus
that leads down the 'Sacred Road' through the Forum.  A
skeleton force of legionnaires parade just behind as
DRUMMERS beat a brisk tattoo.  Tribuus walks ahead of the
chariot as two legionnaires hold military standards on
high.

First they pass the Senate on their left where the
Senators stand on the steps to greet him.  Falco is out
front and raises his arms in welcome.  As they pass the
Senate they're surrounded by citizens.

				TRIBUUS
		Marcus Aurelius Commodus Antoninus
		Augustus, Emperor of Rome,
		conqueror of the German tribes!
		Master of the Danube!  All of Rome
		salutes you!

Citizens of Rome line the way.  Some cheer, but most are
quiet.  And that silence is unnerving.  Then:

				VOICE
		Romans do not pay tribute!

And that causes a landslide of yelling.  Commodus stares
dead ahead as they're now forced to run a gauntlet of
outraged citizens.  Finally his chariot picks up speed as
it continues through the forum toward the palace on the
Palatine Hill.

INT.  IMPERIAL PALACE - DUSK

While Commodus paces like a caged animal, Falco walks to
and fro oddly trying to keep up with him.  Lucilla sits
stretching her legs; after the long trip she looks
exhausted.  A slave pours wine.

				FALCO
		The Senate is out to sink you.  I
		swear it, Caesar, your generosity is
		being repaid with public attacks on
		your honor.  Your enemies want you
		weak enough so by the first of Janus
		when you must be confirmed the
		Senate will be able to deny you.

				COMMODUS
		How can they?  Who else is there?  I
		have no heir...

				LUCILLA
		That's the point, dear brother, your
		'heir' is the Senate.  And believe
		me, they know it.

				FALCO
		Do not take this lightly, Caesar.
		They mean to abolish the
		Emperorship.  If they do you and
		your sister will be executed.
		You've got to plan your moves as
		seriously as if you were going to
		war.

EXT.  PRISON WAGON WHEEL - DAYS LATER - NIGHT

The wheel bumps up from a rut and onto a road of precisely
cut polygonal lava blocks.

INT.  PRISON WAGON - DAY

The wagon STOPS.  Narcissus wakes and looks across to
Juba.  With a horrendous BANG the entire side of the wagon
falls away as it's unhinged by SOLDIERS.

EXT.  PRISON WAGON

The prisoners are lined up facing a rank of soldiers
holding them at spear-point.  Narcissus now sees that
their wagon is part of a convoy of four; all unload
prisoners on the edge of a forest.

				JUBA
		Is this Rome?  Are we just going to
		be executed?

				NARCISSUS
		They can't... if this is Rome...

Narcissus is chained wrist-to-wrist with the German as all
the prisoners are CHAINED IN PAIRS.  Juba gets chained to
a tall blonde German WARRIOR.

NOW EVERYTHING HAPPENS FAST --

A DOZEN ARMED MEN with feathers woven into their hair
charge at them from the far end of the path and dive them
down a trail that leads between a double row of tall oaks.
Cries, hoots and cheers surround them like an INVISIBLE
MASS OF HUMANITY and at the end of the grove there's this
unnatural GLOW.

IN THE GROWING LIGHT

they emerge into the center of a VAST ARENA that's been
'planted' with trees to imitate a forest.

From the tops of the sheer twelve foot perimeter walls,
banks of seats slope away tier after tier until, at the
very tops of the seating are arch after arch, each framing
a marble statue of a different Roman emperor.

THE PRISONERS...

gawk at the enormous proportions of the building:  it's
the COLOSSEUM of Rome.  Looking back at them are FIFTY
THOUSAND FANS -- and as one, like some surreal canned
sound track they all LAUGH.

Then to a fanfare of horns and drums a corpulent, self-
important man rises.  This is JERSES -- head of the Roman
Circus.  Jerses turns to the imperial box, but the marble
throne-like seat which has a carved wolf relief, is EMPTY.

				JERSES
		On this dawn!  In celebration of the
		New Caesar, Lucius Aelius Aurelius
		Commodus' glorious triumph over the
		German tribes I declare these games
		-- which will run without
		interruption to the month of Janus
		-- open to one and all!

HOWLS and CHEERS from the audience -- many in the 'best
seats' (nearest the arena) rise and directly applaud
Jerses.

NARCISSUS

Searching the row of prisoners he sees Juba staring dead
ahead.

				JERSES
		In sacrifice for Rome that the world
		might know the new Emperor's love
		for his citizens, during these games
		two hundred pairs of gladiators will
		fight to the death...!
				(deafening cheers)
		One thousand criminals will be
		devoured by wild beasts... there
		shall be venationes!  Battles be-
		twixt elephants and rhinoceroses;
		bears and bulls; leopards and lions;
		exotic animals never seen in Rome --
		captured by our legions in their
		triumph in Africa -- will be hunted
		to the death!

Narcissus is staggered -- his head pivots around at the
frantic, blood-lusting crowd.

ARCHERS...

emerge from a door in a wall of the Colosseum, bows strung
over their shoulders, each carries a small jug and each
archer approaches a pair of chained-together prisoners.
As they DAUB PAINT on the prisoners' arms -- a particular
NUMBER for each pair -- spectators rise, pointing at
different pairs, some jotting notes.  Juba and the Blonde
get daubed with a red 'III'.

				SLAVE #1
		Wagers!  Make your wagers -- visit
		the Blue Betting booths!  Remember
		the number of your favorite pair!

				SLAVE #2
		Red Booths -- bet at the Red Booths!
		The Red Booths always give you the
		best odds!  The Red Booths -- open
		until curfew!

A young, SURLY-LOOKING ARCHER gets to Narcissus and the
German.  He snorts his disdain, then daubs a black Roman
numeral 'V' onto the German's arm -- but when he paints
Narcissus he decks the archer with his free hand.  The
audience CHEERS and there's a spurt of note-taking in the
stands.

FROM THE CHEAP SEATS --

a lanky GREEK, PROXIMO PALINDROMOS, instantly flashes his
dark eyes down into the mass of prisoners.

PROXIMO'S POV

Hard to see anything from this far up.  He starts to turn
away when the German Warrior steps aside and as Narcissus
is revealed his ROMAN EAGLE FLASHES.

AND PROXIMO

suddenly very interested... Quickly he looks across to the
opposite side of the arena where a pencil-thin man in a
dark green toga sits beside Jerses, also scrutinizing the
prisoners.  He looks RIGHT UP AT PROXIMO.  The man is
LYKAS.

INT.  COLOSSEUM

Narcissus is shoved down an immense stone hallway mad with
activity.

Juba is rushed along twenty feet ahead.  Behind the huge
doors are drawn closed by two burly slaves but at the last
second they stop to let Proximo in.

RAMP

Narcissus herded with the others down a steep ramp.  They
pass...

-- huge baskets of FLOWERS being ground to juice and
   dumped into a sluice.

-- the side of a cage; as Narcissus passes, a leopard
   SLAMS against the bars.

-- Narcissus is pushed on, deeper into the guts of the
   Colosseum.  He gets a fast glimpse of a room where
   BUTCHERS chop out slabs of meat.  Bleeding ribs dangle
   from hooks...

-- SLAVES charge in opposite directions along a tunnel
   yanking pulley ropes as a CAGED BEAR rises from below.

-- But now they're pushed deeper into the darkening
   'basement' until finally they reach --

THE 'HOLE'

Slaves wait with oil lamps to light their way as they run
in a semi-squat beneath the low stone ceiling.  Prisoners
GASP in the choking air while around them come the banshee
wails of other PRISONERS.  Finally they stop and Narcissus
and Juba come face-to-face.

				JUBA
		Fight!  Feohtan!

But Juba is knocked down by two guards -- one rears back
to spear him when Narcissus throws himself in front of
Juba...

				PROXIMO
		Stop!  Stop!

The guard instantly backs off as torches converge lighting
up the claustrophobic tunnel.  Proximo steps into the
light as Narcissus stands.  Then he takes hold of
Narcissus' Roman Eagle.

				PROXIMO
		Is this your?

Narcissus GRABS the eagle and shoves Proximo back.

Proximo nods to slaves and Narcissus' chain is held up
against the wall and with two blows the links are broken
with a hammer.  Narcissus is yanked back the way he came.
He just has time to look over his shoulder to see Juba
shoved into the hole and the door SLAMS behind them.

MAIN HALL

Exhausted, Narcissus is rushed back up the ramp into the
main hall where Proximo waits.  Then a side door opens and
OUTSIDE LIGHT explodes in like a flashgun.

EXT.  COLOSSEUM - DAY

Narcissus is led -- chained -- into the streets, armed
slaves urge him along as ahead Proximo rides in a sedan
chair.

-- FOOD AND DRINK VENDORS shout and wave samples of their
   wares;

-- TICKET SCALPERS hold up IVORY TICKETS yelling out
   Colosseum seat numbers;

-- BOOKMAKERS stand on tables -- some with RED headbands,
   some with BLUE -- screaming out names of various
   gladiators and indicating their 'odds' with fingers as
   citizens queue up to bet;

-- RELIC HAWKERS hold up pieces of gladiatorial armor
   yelling the name of the dead gladiator and the number
   of his victories;

-- Lion paws and leopard ears are touted as potency
   medicines;

-- WHORES bare-chested with wildly painted breasts line
   the road taking customers into the alleys...

EXT.  PROXIMO'S GLADIATORIAL SCHOOL - DAY

They approach ornate double wooden gates with carved
action scenes of gladiators in battle.

INT.  PROXIMO'S INSULA - GLADIATOR SCHOOL - DAY

Narcissus enters with two powerful armed SLAVES who
unchain him and give him water and bread.  Proximo sits
behind his 'desk' which is a slab of thick rose volcanic
rock polished to a high luster, its corners supported by
salvaged marble BUSTS painted in the original garish Greek
style:  faces pink, hair brown or blond, eyes white with
brown or blue irises.

Gaudy mosaics of gladiatorial battles hang on the wall
over his table.  Narcissus eyeballs the setup:  everything
but pink flamingos.

With Proximo is ADONIS THE BOXER:  a tall, thick man, face
deeply scarred, nose pulverized.  The other is an albino
dwarf -- DALA.  Dala has Jimmy Winters -- white hair and
almost crimson eyes.

Proximo stares at Narcissus for a time as Dala pours him a
cup of wine.  Finally, Proximo drinks.

				PROXIMO
		Welcome to Rome.
				(pause)
		Who are you?

Instead of answering, Narcissus holds out his cup.

				PROXIMO
		You're a legate in the Roman army.
		Huh...?  and you act like one.
		What was your crime?

				NARCISSUS
		I killed too many barbarians.

				PROXIMO
		I'm a Greek, thank you.  And I was
		brought up believing Romans were the
		barbarians.
				(to slave)
		Give our new colleague some of the
		Cretan white.  Relax, tell me
		everything, I'm your friend.

Dala fills Narcissus' cup.  After a second of hesitation
Narcissus drinks... and it's good.

				NARCISSUS
		Who the hell are you?

				PROXIMO
		I am the man who might save your
		life -- give you a bit more life at
		any rate.  I am Proximo Palindromos
		head of this gladiatorial school
		which is named after me.  I own this
		school and everything that's in it.
				(laughs)
		You're in it!  But why?  What did a
		Roman general do to get himself
		condemned to the Colosseum?
		Understand, we usually get corn
		thieves and pick pockets.  Please, I
		separated you from the others
		because...
				(sniffs loudly)
		... my nose tells me you've been
		condemned for important reasons.

				NARCISSUS
		Condemned?  Aren't I owed a trial
		before being condemned?

				PROXIMO
		General, all I know is you have been
		condemned to the Colosseum, and a
		trial is nowhere to be seen.

				NARCISSUS
		Impossible!  Every citizen has a
		right to trial -- this is Rome!

One of the attending SLAVES chuckles and is hushed by a
glare from Proximo.

				PROXIMO
		In Rome, you will discover, all
		things -- especially the most
		unthinkable -- are possible.  What
		were you charged with?

Now Narcissus won't talk.

				PROXIMO
		Well, it probably doesn't matter.
		Probably you'll be dead tomorrow.
		But it might matter tonight because
		I'm going to plead with Jerses head
		of the circus to have you instituted
		as a gladiator immediately.  He's a
		loathsome pig but in this business
		one doesn't get to choose one's
		friends.  Your business too, maybe?
		Oh yes, the arena slaves took this
		from you.  It's yours, isn't it?

A slave hands Narcissus' small box of ancestors to Proximo
who hands it to Narcissus.

				NARCISSUS
		Thank you.  What is going to happen
		tomorrow?  Exactly?

				PROXIMO
		You are to be killed, exactly.
		They'll give you a sporting chance,
		but just enough to make your
		murder... entertaining.  Romans like
		to mix their metaphors:  laughter
		with their executions, you know?  If
		you survive, though, you will become
		a gladiator.  A gladiator at least
		gets a fair fight.

				NARCISSUS
		Death is a very light thing for you.

				PROXIMO
		Death is... everything for me.  Now
		you have to go to your cell, and I
		to dicker with Jerses... you'll be
		fed well.  I want you to be fit as
		you can be; I want you to win for me
		tomorrow!  I want all my gladiators
		to win and be happy!  Besides, I've
		never owned a Roman general before.

EXT.  GLADIATOR SCHOOL YARD - DAY

Narcissus is led through the yard -- notes Adonis on his
right and Dala following along behind.  Two armed slaves
flank them in a tight formation.  Dala and Adonis watch
Narcissus with a mix of curiosity and awe; Adonis knows
what he's thinking.

				ADONIS
		Escape is impossible, general.
		First you have these guards who will
		not hesitate to kill you.  Then you
		have the Praetorian Guard, and then
		the Rome city police...

				DALA
		The vigiles, Vigilant Patrols.
		They're everywhere... you don't know
		if maybe even your best friend could
		be a spy.

GLADIATORS range around the walled-in open space -- like a
mini-arena -- working out in the sunshine.  Some lift
WEIGHTS made from crude chunks of iron or rock; there's a
primitive BOW-FLEX DEVICE made from real bows.  Bored
armed GUARDS range the walkway atop the wall.

A PIECE OF CLOTH WEIGHTED DOWN WITH A ROCK flutters over
the wall and thuds in the square and there's a short
scramble as gladiators rush for it.  Finally the 'note' is
passed on to Adonis.

				ADONIS
		Crassus, it's for you.

A tall, handsome gladiator:  "CRASSUS THE SPARTAN" whose
hair is woven with TINY SILVER BELLS, stands beside Adonis
in expectation.

				CRASSUS
		Come on!  Tell me what it says!

				ADONIS
				(reading)
		"I dream of your muscles, dear
		Crassus!"
				(howls from the
				others)
		"... and pray the one between your
		legs is as large as the one between
		your ears is small!"

Hoots as Crassus grabs the 'note' away from Adonis.

				DALA
		For a price Proximo can manage a
		meeting for any lady...

A gladiator with Bad Teeth moves up to intercept
Narcissus.  The man's lost teeth are replaced with glued-
in bits of colored stone.  He looks Narcissus over, scoffs
and returns to his friends.  As they pass along a wall it
dips to waist level over a sheer drop.  Narcissus stops at
the view.

FAR BELOW

... is the FORUM OF ROME with its bustling street and
squares and magnificent buildings.

From here Narcissus can see the Roman Temples:  that of
the Divine Claudius; Venus and Rome; Mars Ultor; the
Temple of Minerva; of Peace; the Divine Julius; of Castor
and Pollux; of the Vestal Virgins.  Each like a miniature
Parthenon seems to faintly GLOW.

FURTHER...

Beyond are the Domus of the upper classes and the insula
of the poor.  Actually overwhelmed by the sight; perhaps
it gives Narcissus hope.

INT.  CELL - DUSK

TIGHT ON the ceramic FACE OF HIS ANCESTORS looking like a
row of hollow caricatures.  They seem to be watching...

NARCISSUS

who sits in the shadows of his cell that's twenty feet
square.  There are two barred windows, one on the rear
wall and another on the side wall.  Finally Narcissus
rises... he takes up one of the ceramics, snaps a piece
off on the side of the table to get a nice sharp edge.  He
rolls back his sleeves and starts to open the vein of his
left wrist.

FROM ABOVE Dala shouts down from a small window in the
roof.  The cell door flies back and TWO SLAVES tackle
Narcissus.  Dala enters followed by Proximo.  Dala pushes
one of the slaves aside and grabs Narcissus' wrist.

				NARCISSUS
		Take your hands off me animal!

				PROXIMO
		Chain him.

The slaves immediately bind Narcissus' wrists with a
leather strap that's locked with a metal cleat.

				PROXIMO
		Sorry but I have to get at least one
		fight out of you otherwise I won't
		even get back the cost of the bribe
		I had to pay the arena slaves to get
		you here.  I know what you're trying
		to do:  kill yourself and trust in
		the Roman tradition of justice that
		the emperor will let your family
		survive and keep their lands.  The
		only thing you have accomplishes is
		to prove you're a very important
		individual.  You make me feel good
		about my investment!  And that
		puking pig Jerses -- he won't even
		discuss you.  Both of you have
		clamped mouths!  But I love all my
		fighters -- I'll find out about your
		family.  And about you.  That I
		promise.

				NARCISSUS
		I refuse to be your slave.  I
		refuse --

				PROXIMO
		-- to fight?  We'll see...

Proximo leaves and the door shuts behind him.  Narcissus
is left chained in the dark.

INT.  GLADIATOR WAGON - MORNING

The side of a broad barred opening like an animal circus
wagon designed to show-off the creatures inside.  The
gladiators watch Narcissus:  various men, all colors, all
showing battle scars...

GANG KIDS dressed like gladiators chase the wagon
shouting:  "Gladiator -- Hey, Gladiator!"  "Crassus!
Crassus The Spartan!  Throw us a head"  "Hey -- Bad
Teeth!"  Who you going to skewer today?!"

Most catch up to the wagon slogging along in rush-hour
traffic and hammer the sides with their FISTS.
Fascinated, Narcissus leans close to the bars -- LITTLE
KID FACES peer back.

				BLOND KID
		You're new!  Hey!  A new one!

				MANY KIDS
		You're dead!  They're gonna rip your
		guts out!  You're dead -- dead!
		Dead guts!

Then they pass the senate steps -- Senator Gaius and an
AGED SENATOR who seems from another era, GRACCHUS, address
a crowd.  The kids peel away from the wagon and shove
through the audience.  Narcissus presses to the bars for a
good look.

				BAD TEETH
		Friends of yours?

The gladiators laugh.  But as they pass, Narcissus watches
the senators.

				GAIUS
		Shall we allow Commodus to turn the
		labor of Marcus Aurelius upside
		down?  Are we Romans or dogs?!

The KIDS START BARKING.  The cart veers toward the
enormous flank of the Colosseum.  A FAT PERSIAN TICKET
SCALPER and his two young SONS man a table holding ivory
Colosseum tickets like fans of cards, shouting seats and
prices.

FOUR ROME WHORES ending their day laugh and wave at the
cart.  A CUTE WHORE in a yellow wig blows them a kiss.
SOUNDS OF THE COLOSSEUM CROWD RISE OVER...

EXT.  COLOSSEUM ARENA - DAY

FEET of the MOB in the Colosseum stamping as their
chanting VOICES echo in shock waves through the giant
marble chamber.

AND COMMODUS

Standing for the crowd.  He's surrounded by members of the
Imperial Household -- Lucilla on his right beside Falco.
Commodus sits, seems nervous.

				LUCILLA
		Don't you think you should at least
		wave?

				COMMODUS
		Why?  Then they'll notice when I'm
		gone.  Well.  I'm making a public
		appearance aren't I?

ARENA

GLADIATORS parade single file through the arena.  They
strut their stuff:  flexing their muscles, gesturing
obscenely as they receive the cat-calls of young girls.
SATURNUS -- a muscular gladiator with waist-length wavy
hair stops to bask in the animal howls of the crowd.

NARCISSUS

stands inside a heavily guarded double door watching the
action.  As the 'Proximo gladiators' come in off the field
they sit on blocks of stone lining the wall.  Then,
Narcissus spots Commodus and moves closer to the opening.

Saturnus stops directly in front of the Imperial Box,
lifts his hand in the Roman salute -- which was the model
for the Fascist's salute.

				SATURNUS
		Caesar!  Those who are about to die,
		salute you!

It's the cue for the crowd to go WILD.  Again Commodus
looks around at this vast arena.  He tentatively makes a
broad wave and instead of getting the expected universal
cheers, some LOUD BOOS jab up at him from the cheap seats.
Commodus is outraged.

				FALCO
		Caesar, ignore them.

				COMMODUS
		Ignore that?!  The sooner we leave
		this disgusting place the better.

				FALCO
		At least stay for the running of the
		animals.  You are paying for it you
		know...

A set of tall doors are pulled back by pairs of slaves and
ANIMALS RUSH INTO THE ARENA.  WILDEBEESTS -- HYENAS --
ANTELOPE -- ZEBRAS -- WILD ASSES -- BEARS -- JACKALS --
even a LONE HIPPO... blunder off the smooth marble walls
in terrified confusion.  Commodus seems physically struck.

				FALCO
		The money was set aside for your
		father's triumph.  The people expect
		it.

				COMMODUS
		Gods of hell!  This must cost a
		fortune!  How many days is this
		going to go on?

				FALCO
		Until your confirmation date.

Commodus looks back out on the arena where every animal
must look like a heap of cash.

				COMMODUS
		A month!  The treasury is
		bleeding... and these pigs expect me
		to sponsor their amusement while
		they boo me?

Commodus turns and his entourage follows him out.

NARCISSUS

moves closer to the opening, trying to see through the
dust and animals but gets shoved back.  The other
gladiators sit on stones, backs to the action.  There's an
'imminent feeling' like soldiers gathered in a trench
before battle.  Narcissus turns back to the arena.

MOUNTED HUNTERS --

Carrying javelins charge into the arena.

And while they corner animals and impale them a LONE MAN
-- a 'Colosseum Clown' rushes across the sands with a
furious BEAR hot on his heels.

The Colosseum Clown reaches the far end of the arena and
'runs' up the slick marble side using his momentum.  As
the bear lunges for him he flips off the wall, over the
bear and starts running the other way.  The crowd goes
wild for it.

LOWER CELLS/THE HOLE...

ABSOLUTE BLACKNESS.  A solid door pulls back and faint
light reveals Juba collapsed in the filth of the cave-like
cell.  Drenched with perspiration he gasps in the 'fresh'
air and like the other prisoners looks nearly asphyxiated.
Arena Slaves poke torches at them.

				ARENA SLAVE
		Come on!  Time to meet Pluto!

GLADIATOR AREA

As Dala jabbers on, the PRISONERS are rushed up from the
depths of the Colosseum.

				DALA
		I usually fight women gladiators or
		other dwarfs.  Sometimes I ride into
		battle on an ostrich.  Women are
		ruthless!  Ostriches can break your
		arm with a single kick!

Narcissus is yanked to his feet by armed slaves and
chained to the German Warrior who bears the same blue
paint smear as he.  They study one another, brothers in
pain.  Narcissus searches the faces and sees Juba is one
of the last men being pulled out of the 'hole' by a chain.
Bad Teeth looks up:

				BAD TEETH
		They're going to bet on you:
		whoever dies last wins!  So long
		general...

AT THE DOOR

The prisoners are lined up as the last of the dead animals
are dragged off.  A slave dumps short gladius swords from
a sack, the prisoners scramble to arm themselves.  At the
last second Proximo shoves through and grabs hold of
Narcissus' arm.

				PROXIMO
		Legate Narcissus Meridas, general of
		the Spanish Felix Legions!  I'm
		proud to have you in my school!
				(picks up a sword)
		Now, show them what you can do!

				NARCISSUS
		I'm not a gladiator.  I refuse to
		fight.

				PROXIMO
		Then, you'll die...
				(off his silence)
		Just, know this:  because you asked
		I asked:  I'm sorry but...

A HORN BLOWS and the Colosseum Slaves herd the prisoners
out in a rush.

				PROXIMO
		... the emperor has executed your
		family!

Narcissus is YANKED ahead.

EXT.  ARENA

Narcissus is so staggered by this news he seems barely
able to walk.

				JUBA
		Narcissus!  A sword!  Get a sword!

As the prisoners are double-timed around the arena
spectators rise like a Dodger Wave, shouting and pointing
out pairs -- money swaps hands.  Arena Slaves circle
quickly with rakes smoothing the sand over the animal
blood.

				JERSES
		Citizens!  Make your final wagers!

Jerses unrolls a scroll.  As he speaks ARCHERS line up
against the wall directly beneath Jerses facing the
prisoners.

				JERSES
		Prisoners, you have been found
		guilty of offenses against the
		Fatherland:  In the name of Caesar
		Lucius Aelius Aurelius Commodus and
		the Senate of Rome, you have been
		condemned to the arena, beneath the
		beneath.  Fight well -- live long!

NARCISSUS

barely has time to absorb this when the archers take aim.
PANICKED prisoners trip over their own chains, colliding
with each other.

The German crosses in front of Narcissus and is hit square
in the chest with an arrow.  Instinctively Narcissus tries
to help the German but the man slides out of his arms and
crumples dead in the sand.  Narcissus looks UP as the
crowd cheers...

ANDABATAE ENTER...

They're gladiators with faces hidden by helmets; carrying
THRUSTING SPEARS they look like EXECUTIONER ROBOTS.

Narcissus sees that one man of each chained-together pair
has been killed and then that Juba is still alive.  Each
Andabatus squares off with a surviving prisoner.

				JUBA
		Narcissus -- fight!  Fight!

The crowd ROARS as the Andabatae attack.  The 'joke' is
Narcissus -- like the other prisoners -- has to drag a
dead man around while fighting for his life.

Narcissus dodges the first blow but the movement yanks his
chain taunt and he falls -- barely rolls clear of the next
blow.  Spectators CHEER and LAUGH; the Andabatus circles
keeping Narcissus stretched to the limit of his chain.

Juba lurches, nicks the Andabatus and has time to grab the
sword of the dead Blonde German.

				JUBA
		General!

Juba heaves the sword toward Narcissus, turns to parry
away the Andabatus.  The crowd HOWLS...

Narcissus sees the sword is within grabbing range but he
still won't go for it.  Then the crowd SHOUTS...

JUBA GOES DOWN...

The Andabatus straddles the badly wounded man, salutes the
audience and kills him.  Narcissus now sees he's the last
prisoner left alive.

Narcissus' Andabatus lunges and as Narcissus quickly pulls
out of range he falls forward foot coiled in the chain.
Now it looks like it's all over -- the crowd goes wild
with expectation.

The Andabatus raises his weapon over Narcissus as
spectators poke their chest with their thumbs to symbolize
they want Narcissus killed.  He looks to Jerses for
orders.

NARCISSUS

sees Juba dead, his blood in the sand.  And suddenly
something happens to him -- with every once of energy
left, Narcissus grabs the sword, and CHOPS through the
ACHILLES TENDON of the Andabatus' left leg.  The Andabatus
DROPS as Narcissus lunges out with the sword and the man
FALLS on the blade.

It's over.  Narcissus rolls on his side to face up at
Jerses who still stands about to give the death command --
his mouth DROPS.

AND PROXIMO

got those Don King Eyes... Adonis and Dala come forward.

				PROXIMO
		Did you see that?!  Did you see?!  I
		knew he was a fighter!  A real
		fighter!

THE AUDIENCE --

GOES WILD.  Especially those in the cheap seats.
Narcissus stands with the chain to the dead German in his
hand.  Then he looks over to where Juba has fallen in the
sand.  A man dressed in A COSTUME OF BLACK SCALES and a
monster head walks to each prisoner administering a coup
de grace by clubbing them with a big HAMMER.  He's
'PLUTO'.

Narcissus drags the chain with the body of the German
behind him until he reaches Juba's side.  Pluto sees
Narcissus protecting Juba's body and decides to take a
'pass'.

Finally, exhausted, Narcissus drops to his knees on the
burning sand.  Lowering his head as cheers of the crowd
surround him...

IMPERIAL ENTRANCE - COLOSSEUM

At ground level at the dead end of a long hall Lucilla
watches through an ornate stone grate.  Of course, she's
seen everything.

				TRIBUUS
		Lady, are you coming?

She's startled to find Tribuus has come looking for her.
She nods, shoves past and he follows her down the hall
without a single backward glance.

INT.  IMPERIAL 'CHAIR' - LATER AFTERNOON

Commodus and Lucilla ride along in silence, Praetorian
Guard walking ahead to part the crowd.  As they pass the
Senate, Commodus points to a clutch of CITIZENS gathered
on the steps.

				COMMODUS
		They're talking about me.

Lucilla gives him the hard stare.  But then all the
citizens turn to watch the Imperial Chair pass.

				COMMODUS
		They hate me, they really hate me
		don't they?

				LUCILLA
		Maybe you should get married.  Pick
		one of your cousins, it would
		demonstrate a profound stability.

Commodus puts his hand on her leg.

				COMMODUS
		What about you?

They just stare at each other.  As he talks he continues
to feel under her toga to her hip.  She tries to remain
amused.

				COMMODUS
		I should at least have you, don't
		you think?

				LUCILLA
		If you get me pregnant with a boy
		he'll be a double direct heir and
		will end up killing you for the
		throne.

He freezes -- absolutely turned off -- and takes away his
hand.

				COMMODUS
		Did Narcissus die today?  Wasn't
		this his day to die?

				LUCILLA
		I'm sure, I don't know.

Finally he removes his hand and leans out the opening to
Tribuus who rides alongside.

				COMMODUS
		Tribuus, what happened in the arena?
		Was Narcissus killed?

				TRIBUUS
		He must have been.  He was on the
		list of prisoners to be executed.

				LUCILLA
		No one in Rome has ever heard of
		him.  Do you want to remind those
		few in the Senate who have?  The
		whole sordid thing is far beneath
		your position to begin with.  Forget
		about him.

				COMMODUS
		Let some time pass... then ask,
		quietly, without anyone knowing it
		comes from me.

				TRIBUUS
		Leave it to me, Caesar.

INT.  NARCISSUS' CELL - LATE AFTERNOON

Narcissus has drunk himself unconscious and lies face down
on the table.  The door swings open and Proximo enters
with an armed guard and COS, a handsome young man who
looks like a student.  As the light sweeps in through the
open door Narcissus blinks awake.

				PROXIMO
		Narcissus Meridas, general of the
		Spanish VII, famed Felix Legions.
		I'm proud to have you in my school!

Narcissus staggers to his feet and crosses to the rear
window.  He leans against the bars and gulps cool air.

				PROXIMO
		General, do you realize what
		happened out there today?

				NARCISSUS
		I didn't get killed and everyone
		else did.

				PROXIMO
		That's one way to look at it.

				COS
		You won an impossible fight.  You
		got the attention of the crowd,
		legate...

				PROXIMO
		This is Cos, this precocious young
		man.  A scribe for the Daily
		Action.(1)  I've invited him to
		write a small piece about you...

				COS
		I'm mentioning you in tomorrow's
		athlete's section, legate.  So, I'd
		love to know your birth sign; it
		effects how people bet.  And perhaps
		you could tell me a bit about...
		well, who are you?

Narcissus looks from one to the other then back to his
view of Rome which looks like lead in shadows.

				NARCISSUS
		I don't have a birth sign...

Cos looks to Proximo who starts to speak but realizes the
interview is over...

INT.  NARCISSUS' CELL - LATE AFTERNOON

Narcissus crouches in the corner slowly sipping his wine
staring at the 'faces' of his ancestors.

				NARCISSUS
		Janus, God of passages, I know you
		exist...
				(pause)
		I beg you open the door for Selene,
		Manto, and my little Themis to the
		land of our ancestors.  I have no
		fit offering for the task I ask, but
		if you save my ladies one day I will
		find a sacrifice worthy of you.

Dala's face peers in from above.

				DALA
		Don't let Proximo push you around.
		Proximo must, by law, give you a
		third of everything he makes off you
		outside the arena.  Popular
		gladiators get rich!

Narcissus grabs his wine jug and throws it at Dala who
leaps out of sight.  Then Narcissus picks up a stone and
stands over the images of his ancestors.

ON HIS ANCESTORS...

One by one he SMASHES EACH FACE.  SOUNDS OF THE COLOSSEUM
RISE OVER as if cheering him on...

INT.  COLOSSEUM - GLADIATOR AREA - MORNING

A SWORD drops in the dirt.  Narcissus looks up to find
Proximo with an Arena Slave who holds a sack of swords.

				PROXIMO
		We're calling you "Narcissus The
		Good."  It's in the Daily Action.

A CHEER from the crowd and Narcissus glances toward the
arena.

HE SEES...

Crassus has speared a panther which drops, clawing
hopelessly at the blade stuck in its throat.  To
resounding cheers, Crassus holds up his arms, playing to
his audience.  Then with a huge show he straddles the cat
and kills it with a dagger -- the crowd erupts...

NARCISSUS

picks the sword up so fast the point almost catches
Proximo in the face.  Proximo straightens, scowls and
moves off.  Bad Teeth chuckles.  But when he gets the cold
stare from Narcissus he turns away, chuckling to himself.

ARENA

Narcissus faces a Hoplomachi.  The Hoplomachi looks
completely protected in lead grey armor.  He carries a
round shield and a long sword.  Narcissus walks slowly
toward him and the audience hushes.

				NARCISSUS
		Surrender or I'll kill you!

People just crack-up...

				SPECTATOR
		Narcissus The Good!

As one the audience howls throwing trash down into the
arena.

Narcissus drops his shield, grips his sword with both
hands -- feints -- the Hoplomachi misses left and
Narcissus comes down full force on the man's helmet.
Narcissus' sword SPLITS THE HELMET AND STAYS THERE.  The
Hoplomachi takes two more steps and drops dead.

Narcissus turns and strides back the way he came ignoring
the crowd as it GOES WILD.

INT.  GLADIATOR WAGON - LATE AFTERNOON

Narcissus sits rubbing his wrist where he's cuffed.  The
others watching him.  Crassus hands him a small jar and a
rag.  Narcissus wipes his wrist -- and it stings.  Bad
Teeth chuckles.  Now, heading away from the Colosseum are
Four Whores, today the Cute Whore wears a BLUE WIG; they
blow kisses...

EXT.  FORUM - LATE AFTERNOON

Outside the Senate Tribuus with ten Praetorian Guard face
down an angry demonstration.

INT.  SENATE - LATE AFTERNOON

Commodus faces the challenging, stoic wall of Senators in
their pure white togas.  Falco sits prominently near the
front.  From outside come the sounds of the mob.

				COMMODUS
		Senators.  There was no more fair
		man than my father.  A man of
		learning who dreamed the fondest of
		all Roman dreams:  restoring the
		Republic.  Still, my father ruled.
		And though I seek only to fulfill
		his dream, I too must rule.  For
		despite the gossip of philosophers
		men are not born free; they must
		have freedom given them by the
		state.

				GRACCHUS
		Are you alleging, Caesar, that our
		citizens' desire for the Republic is
		infantile?

				COMMODUS
		Men who believe they can truly be
		free, like it or not, are
		necessarily children.

				FALCO
		And like children everywhere they
		scream "freedom" the most when they
		desire it least.  I beg you, please
		continue, Caesar.

				COMMODUS
		At the opening of the month of
		Janus, I will ask this noble body to
		confirm my emperorship...

Gracchus points out toward the street.

				GRACCHUS
		We don't have to wait for the month
		of Janus, the people deny you
		already!

				COMMODUS
		It is you, Gaius and you Gracchus
		who incite the people until they are
		out of control!

				GAIUS
		It is not the Senate's duty to
		control the people, rather to allow
		them the right to control us!

				FALCO
		Gentlemen, gentlemen:  our emperor
		has come here humbly to address us
		about his confirmation...

				VOICE
		If there is a confirmation!

				FALCO
		... and I insist we show him the
		respect and honor he is due.

				GRACCHUS
		Caesar, what are you doing about
		this growing grain shortage?  If
		there is unrest now, what happens
		when there is no bread at all?

				GAIUS
		And that treaty!  By giving the
		Germans money and letting them
		remain on the Danube at arms do we
		not run the risk of essentially
		financing their next invasion of
		Italy?

				GRACCHUS
		Caesar, the Senate must answer to
		the people...

EXT.  SENATE - LATE AFTERNOON

As Commodus comes out protected by a line of Praetorian
Guard; he's scared, but smiles like a politician.

				TRIBUUS
		Make way!  Make way for Caesar!  Son
		of Marcus Aurelius!

				VOICE
		To hell with the son!  Give us back
		the father!

The crowd breaks into a chant for Marcus Aurelius.  As
Commodus and Tribuus move faster to get clear of the crowd
people actually begin THROWING TRASH.

INT.  IMPERIAL PALACE - PALATINE HILL - EVENING

Lucilla watches as Commodus heaves statuary, paintings,
even furniture into a heap on the central room floor;
slaves scurry to pick it up.

				LUCILLA
		Those are priceless sculptures.

				COMMODUS
		I want every single thing that
		belonged to my father out of this
		house!  If it's worth something then
		sell it!

Falco enters with Tribuus.  Commodus rages at him.

				COMMODUS
		It's disgusting!  Animals!  I had to
		come here under armed guard.  Slaves
		-- get this junk out of my sight.

				LUCILLA
		Commodus is heaving out every thing
		that belonged to our father.  Except
		that he can't heave out his ghost.

Commodus hits her hard across the face.  She staggers back
against the edge of a fountain.

				COMMODUS
		Shut up!  This is no joke!  I am no
		joke!  You understand me!

Only her anger keeps back her tears.

				LUCILLA
		Yes... brother.

For a moment everyone is overwhelmed -- and Falco steps
between them.  Lucilla sits, washes the corner of her
mouth from the fountain.

				FALCO
		Gracchus and Gaius are inciting the
		crowd by holding you up for
		comparison.  You must kill that
		ghost that's haunting you.

Commodus turns and comes nearly nose-to-nose with a statue
of Marcus Aurelius.  He grabs a slave.

				COMMODUS
		I told you to get that bust out of
		my sight!

The hapless slave hugs the statue but no way will it
budge.

				SLAVE
		Caesar -- it outweighs me!

				TRIBUUS
		Guards -- help us here.

				COMMODUS
		Throw it down into the streets!
		Down into the Forum.  If it's my
		father they want then give him to
		them!

				FALCO
		Yes.  You know, that's not a bad
		idea.

				COMMODUS
		Maybe it'll crush Gaius.

				FALCO
		I'm serious.

				COMMODUS
		So am I.

				FALCO
		We can crush Gaius another way.
		What if you do throw something to
		the people they really want?  Make
		them a gift of food.

				COMMODUS
		Give away food?

				FALCO
		Sacks of grain, even bread.  I own
		the grain licenses for the military,
		I can arrange to divert a shipment
		bound for the army of the Danube.

				COMMODUS
		Take grain away from the army?

				FALCO
		Make a gift to the people.  It's
		your money anyway so it's only fair.

Lucilla seems very interested.

				LUCILLA
		And make a huge deal out of it... If
		you want the people to truly
		remember the gesture, that is at
		least until the first of Janus, it
		must be an event, an occasion of
		celebration.

				FALCO
		She's right about that.  It's going
		to be damned expensive so better get
		your money's worth.

				COMMODUS
		How about in the forum.  Right in
		front of the Senate.

				LUCILLA
		If I may be so bold...

				COMMODUS
		For the gods, spit it out!

				LUCILLA
		Why not do it in the Colosseum?

Hard to tell exactly what Commodus thinks of this.

				LUCILLA
		When Julius Caesar overthrew the
		Republic he held massive games at
		Circus Maximus to divert the people.
		By the time they came home from all
		their fun... they were living in a
		dictatorship.

That gets him interested.  Tribuus and the guards begin to
wrestle the statue of Marcus Aurelius out of the hall.

INT.  NARCISSUS' CELL - DAY LATER - DAWN

The door bangs back and Narcissus wakes.  Adonis enters
with two guards.  Narcissus gets up from the floor where
he's been sleeping on a blanket.

				ADONIS
		General...

Other cells can be heard clanking aside, men cursing and
laughing.  Far off ROOSTERS CROW.  Adonis steps out and
Proximo pokes his head in.

				PROXIMO
		Like an animal.  I give you one of
		the best cells -- look at you, on
		the ground.  And the crowd -- you
		win and they hate you because you
		never ask them for permission to
		kill your opponent!  You could win
		the wooden sword if the crowd loves
		you enough!  The wooden sword!  It's
		freedom -- you listening to me?
		Gladiator has the chance of winning
		it... technically.

Narcissus just shoves past.

				PROXIMO
		This isn't a war, you know!  Have
		some fun with it!

EXT.  SCHOOL COURTYARD - DAWN

Narcissus pauses to watch the other gladiators herded
together from the pitiful cells, some naked pulling on
ragged togas.  In the yard steaming cauldrons of food are
prepared by slaves.

Dragged from his cell a new, young gladiator -- VEDNAS --
weeps and screams that he doesn't want to die.

Bad Teeth crawls out of his cell like a bear, punches
Vednas in the mouth to shut him up and moves on before the
guards can get to him.

Already dressed, Crassus kneels before a crude stone
alter, praying to his God.

INT.  GLADIATOR WAGON - MORNING

Silence from the gladiators as the wagon squeaks and
thumps through Rome.  The Gang-Kids race alongside,
shouting.  Bad Teeth reaches under his rough toga and
comes up with a small jug of wine.  He hands it to
Narcissus.

				BAD TEETH
		This is my God.

Narcissus eyeballs the jug, then takes it and turns away
from the rest to drink.  The others swap looks.  Gathering
his courage, Vednas crawls near.

				VEDNAS
		They say, you are a general...

Narcissus looks him over a moment, says nothing.  But
Vednas pours forth in desperation.

				VEDNAS
		I don't belong here!  I'm Vednas the
		scribe!  I can read and write
		Etruscan, Greek; I can read the
		pictures of the great Pharaohs and
		the tongue of Cyrus the Younger!  I
		once translated the whole Epic of
		Gilgamesh from Babylonian into Greek
		for the library of Ephesus!  My
		ancestors were scribes at the Great
		Library of Alexandria!

				BAD TEETH
		I'll bet he can scream in ten
		languages!

Howls from the others.  Narcissus remains unmoved.

				VEDNAS
		I never bothered anyone.  I had a
		corner, out on the verge where the
		insula and the domus meet.  Anyone
		with good taste came to me to write
		their letters.  Love letters were my
		specialty!  General, I can compose
		like no other man!

				BAD TEETH
		Yeah, but pretty soon you'll be
		decomposing!

More laughs... Vednas gets desperate.

				VEDNAS
		Please!  I was condemned for over
		charging for a document!  They need
		bodies for the arena!  I did
		nothing!  Help me!

Narcissus has another sip of wine.

				NARCISSUS
		You want to live?
				(pause)
		Kill.

INT.  COLOSSEUM ARENA - DAY/MONTAGE:

Narcissus circles a 'THRACIAN' GLADIATOR:  small round
shields with a curved scythe-like sword.  The Thracian
whips the sword overhead in a circle with enormous
agility... Narcissus watches and then circles in the
opposite direction.  In a flash he races at the
Thracian...

NEW ANGLE

That scythe-sword spinning off into the ether.

THE THRACIAN...

Dead in the sand as Narcissus walks away paying no
attention to the cheering crowd and getting some BOOS as a
result.

COLOSSEUM ARENA - ANOTHER DAY

On a 'COLOSSUS OF RHODES' design on a shield showing an
image of the legendary copper giant.

A RHODIAN faces Narcissus.  He wears a shiny lorica
segmentata designed from copper, armed with a splay-edged
sword.  Narcissus approaches him, this time carrying his
small shield.  The Rhodian slashes at him and Narcissus
deflects the blow with his shield.  As the crowd HOWLS
they crash together...

THE COPPER SHIELD...

sticking on the edge in the sand, the giant -- feet up...
beside the body of the Rhodian.  Narcissus again strides
away, victorious.

COLOSSEUM ARENA - ANOTHER DAY

A MYRMIDON gladiator in black leather... 'Antenna' poke
from his leather helmet, and a symbol of an ant of his
shield -- rears backward as Narcissus fells him with a
powerful blow...

COLOSSEUM ARENA - ANOTHER DAY

A MIRMILLONES -- a gladiator with scale-like armor and a
fish-shield -- tumbles dead in the sand...

AND THE CROWD...

Cheering, stamping their feet.

AND NARCISSUS

Once again striding off the sand.  But this time he stops,
turns and looks back at the crowd.

HIS POV

The uninhibited proletariat in the upper seats howl.
Their area is littered with trash and a few women even
NURSE BABIES.

THE FRONT SEATS

Some slaves of the upper-class 'fans' smack long WOODEN
HANDS(2) together overhead as their MASTERS recline in
luxurious padded seats.  Others -- equally wealthy -- leap
up cheering and one even grabs the 'souvenir hands' away
from his slave and whacks them together himself.

AND NARCISSUS...

Taking this all in, his eyes shift to:

THE IMPERIAL BOX

Empty... the relief marble Wolf of Rome glares in the
burning sun.

INT.  ARENA - ANOTHER DAY

Narcissus, armed with just his sword, faces a LAQUEARIUS,
a 'lasso man'.  Shirtless, but wearing leather fringed
pants he whirls a rope overhead like Hopalong-fucking-
Cassidy.  Narcissus circles.

				NARCISSUS
		Surrender, or I'll kill you!

				VOICE
		Go ahead and kill him!

Laughter... but as Narcissus circles he stumbles.

PROXIMO

watches from the 'trenches'.  He turns to Adonis.

				PROXIMO
		He's drunk... he's going to die this
		time.

ARENA

The Laquearius almost magically spins his rope so the loop
straightens and he snaps Narcissus' cheek with it like a
whip.  The crowd loves it.  Narcissus grabs his cheek,
puzzled by what's happening.

For a second he seems to clear his head, but now the crowd
is into the thrill of the hunt.  When the Laquearius turns
to close the distance -- in a flash that whirling rope is
back defining the limit of Narcissus' approach.
Humiliated and just not thinking straight he makes a
sudden rush -- and Laquearius lassos him...

Narcissus tries to pull his arms loose but the Laquearius
yanks the noose so tight Narcissus' arms are frozen with
his sword against his body.

Now the Laquearius plays to the crowd -- he yanks
Narcissus to his knees and dances around him, winding
himself closer as the rope twists around Narcissus.  Then
he kneels behind Narcissus, pulls his head back by his
hair and puts the knife against his throat... he look up
to the crowd.

THE MOB...

Shouting, stamping, all plunging their thumbs down against
their chests.

PROXIMO

turns away.  He sits on Narcissus' rock beside Dala.  He
just can't watch.

LAQUEARIUS

smiles for the fans -- but Narcissus sees that exposed
wrist and sinks his teeth into the man's artery --
Laquearius rips his arm loose and blood spews like a
broken garden hose.

Laquearius grabs his wrist and drops his sword --
Narcissus kicks him, flips him and pins him with his
knees.  He gets hold of the sword, jams the blade under
the ropes and slices himself free.  In a flash he turns
the sword and drives it into the Laquearius' chest.

He stands, catches his breath -- the crowd cheers.
Narcissus turns face smeared with blood, watches them yell
and gesture at him.  He looks like an ANIMAL...

INT.  'TRENCHES'

The gladiators silently watch Narcissus as he comes in
from the arena and crosses to a stone cistern to splash
cold water on his face and hair.  Proximo gingerly
approaches.  The CHEERS now include more calls for
"Narcissus."  Proximo snaps his fingers -- a slave brings
Narcissus wine.

				PROXIMO
		That was one of the most impressive
		feats I've ever seen.  You hear them
		calling your name?
				(Narcissus drinks)
		You scorn them.  But, they admire
		you.  When Emperor Trajan had his
		victory over five thousand
		gladiators fought to the death --
		out there.  So, they know a good
		fight.  As a soldier you must have
		fought very well for Rome.

INT.  GLADIATOR WAGON - LATE AFTERNOON

Silence, all the gladiators focused on Narcissus who
couches in the corner, face on his folded arms as if he
were asleep.  As usual the kids chase the wagon, taunting.
Suddenly Bad Teeth shoots his hand through the bars and
snags the little Blonde Kid by the throat.  The kid gags,
dragging as his friends try to pull him loose.

Bad Teeth just grins his grin and hangs on -- strangling.
Out of nowhere Narcissus grabs Bad Teeth's arm -- they
look each other in the eye and Bad Teeth drops the kid in
the dirt.

				BAD TEETH
		Narcissus The Good!

INT.  GLADIATOR AREA - THE 'TRENCHES'...

As Narcissus, Bad Teeth, Vednas, Adonis, Crassus, Dala and
others enter, Proximo follows in the wake of an Arena
Slave who's handing out bread and wine.  A few VOICES call
Narcissus by name...

				PROXIMO
		You hear, General?  Some people
		remember you.  You're a surly
		bastard and still they like you.

An ARENA SLAVE hands Crassus a long spear and he enters
the arena -- CHEERS of the mob welcome him.

Narcissus turns toward a horrendous clank of CHAINS:  two
arena SLAVES race in opposite directions down a long hall
yanking chains that lift a cage to ground level.

ARENA

Crassus faces a scenery facade that's shaped like a STONE
CAVE.  A TIGER rushes from the cave.

NARCISSUS

sits on a stone block beside the other gladiators.

				DALA
		Bad luck!  A tiger.  Someone
		important must be betting against
		Crassus...

A LIGHT FEMALE VOICE calls Narcissus' name.  The sound is
so strange that at first Narcissus doesn't respond.  Then
he sees the FOUR WHORES at a barred window.  The Cute
Whore wearing a wig with spring-like curled hair waves
Narcissus over.  Fascinated, he crosses to the bars.

				CUTE WHORE
		Narcissus The Good!  Can you afford
		me today?

Narcissus turns away toward a SHOUT from the arena.

ARENA

Within twenty feet the tiger crouches to spring.  Crassus
SHAKES HIS LONG HAIR and the TINY BELLS FLASH AND TINKLE.
Baffled by the glinting bells, the tiger stands out of his
crouch.

NARCISSUS

turns back to the Whore.  She smiles.

				CUTE WHORE
		Pay the guard something.  They'll
		let me in and we can do it here.

Narcissus seems confused and maybe he would except:

				NARCISSUS
		I... have no money.

				ANOTHER WHORE
		She's in love with you!  She'll do
		you for free!

The Whores break into laughter.  Then the Cute Whore
gestures Narcissus to the bars like she wanted to whisper
and when he gets close she kisses his cheek -- they break
off laughing again and suddenly GUARDS outside shoo them
away... Proximo puts a hand on Narcissus' shoulder.

				PROXIMO
		The Emperor is here.  He's come here
		himself to distribute bread to the
		people!

It takes Narcissus a second, then he slowly rises and
looks through the bars.

EXT.  IMPERIAL BOX

Six Praetorian Guard flank the Imperial seat.  The crowd
shouts as the tiger CHARGES -- Crassus DROPS and the SUN
CRASHES INTO THE TIGER'S EYES...

Crassus angles the spear to catch the blinded tiger
straight in the chest.  He flips the impaled cat onto its
back and LEANS on the spear.  The tiger tears out with a
paw and SINKS ITS CLAWS INTO CRASSUS' SHOULDER, pulling
him down.

				DALA
		Watch out for the back claws!

Crassus is pulled down as the tiger's thrashing rear legs
tearing into Crassus' gut.  Crassus falls on the cat with
his huge hands around its throat.  Face-to-face, their
foreheads touching -- the tiger, fangs bared, Crassus
grimacing -- they die.

IN THE BEST SEATS

A bleak looking PROCONSUL hands a fistful of GOLD to a
self-important MERCHANT who makes a big show of winning
his bet.

ALL THE GLADIATORS

stand, watching.  Bad Teeth is the first to sit.  Proximo
waves a pair of slaves out.

				PROXIMO
		Shit!  Get his body!  Damn!  Damn
		them all!

Then, with a RUMBLING FANFARE of DRUMS and staccato horns
Commodus makes a grand entrance.  Lucilla, Tribuus and
Falco are at the forefront of an entourage which includes
all manner of wealthy hangers-on.

				JERSES (O.S.)
		After an absence of nearly an entire
		generation...

JERSES

stands on Commodus' left side.

				JERSES
		... great Caesar, Emperor of all
		Rome has returned to our beloved
		Colosseum!

Commodus stands receiving the unbelievable howls and
cheers of the crowd.  Even he is amazed by the reception
and stands grinning and waving.  Commodus finally turns,
nods to Jerses and sits.  More drum and horn effects and
then silence.

				JERSES
		In his boundless wisdom, and with
		the generosity of the gods, Caesar
		Marcus Aurelius Commodus Antoninus
		Augustus...

GLADIATORS

By now all watch the display.  With every second
Narcissus' interest grows.  Crassus body is brought in and
the others crowd around.  Even Proximo steps up to put a
hand on him.

				JERSES (O.S.)
		... in keeping his sworn trust to
		Rome's Citizens...

ARENA

Jerses reaching an apoplexy of passion.

				JERSES
		... will distribute as much grain or
		bread as each man, woman or child
		present here may carry!

The crowd goes wild.  Commodus rises and the crowd begins
a football-like chant of CAESAR-CAESAR-CAESAR... He holds
up his arms welcoming the adulation.  Commodus is almost
physically effected by the cheers the power and
psychological rush is so tremendous.   

NARCISSUS...

turns away from the sight.  Arena Slaves move through the
ranks, two flank Narcissus and one hands him a sword.
Proximo pats him on the shoulder and moves down the ranks.

				PROXIMO
		You're next.  All of you, Caesar is
		here.  Perform well and who knows?
		Someone might get the wooden sword!

				BAD TEETH
		At least you'll make some big bets
		on us with Caesar here.

Snorts of disdain from other gladiators.

IMPERIAL BOX

Falco leans over and plops down five gold coins.

				FALCO
		Caesar, let me sponsor your first
		wager in the arena.

				COMMODUS
		I wouldn't know who to bet on.

				NARCISSUS (O.S.)
		Great Caesar!  We who are about to
		die, salute you!

The sound of Narcissus' voice hits Commodus like a blow.
Stunned he and Falco rise and gawk down into the arena --
Commodus locks eyes with Narcissus.

Narcissus stares at Commodus... then turns as the people
cheer and give cat-calls.  Narcissus faces a gladiator
approaching from the opposite side.  He's a THRACIAN
GLADIATOR; he holds up his round shield and curved sword
to the crowd.

COMMODUS --

just gawks at Narcissus.

				COMMODUS
		Why isn't he dead?  Damn you, you
		promised me he would be dead!

				TRIBUUS
		Caesar, I did my best.  The
		Colosseum isn't under my control...

Sudden panic from Jerses who realizes the ball's in his
court.

				JERSES
		Truthfully, Caesar, the crowd
		doesn't care for him.  He wins,
		but...

				COMMODUS
		Wins?  What in hell are you talking
		about?  That man is my enemy!
		Lucilla, you knew he was here!  You
		did this to humiliate me!

				LUCILLA
		Don't be ridiculous.  Come on; he's
		just a gladiator.  Will you sit
		down?  Everyone's watching.

				NARCISSUS & SOME CROWD
		Surrender, or I'll kill you!

This does not help Jerses' case.

				LUCILLA
		The crowd does seem to know him...

				JERSES
		But just a handful in the cheap
		seats.

NARCISSUS

watches the Thracian very closely.  Obviously the man is
not going to surrender.  They circle as the crowd shouts
-- the sound of the full fifty thousand people is
deafening.  For a second Narcissus stops paying attention,
and he looks up toward the Imperial Box.  The Thracian
charges and Narcissus just has time to block his sword and
shove him aside.

Now Narcissus gets furious and bangs away at the Thracian.

				JERSES
		He's making a mistake.  He'll lose
		now, he can't match the Thracian's
		strength.  He's one of the best from
		School of Lykas.

				COMMODUS
		And Narcissus...?

				JERSES
		School of Proximo!  If anyone's
		responsible for his life it's
		Proximo, he saved him.

Just as those words leave Jerses' mouth Narcissus shoves
his sword right through the Thracian's shield with a
tremendous blow that kills him.

AND COMMODUS

He just turns away.

				COMMODUS
		As soon as he goes, distribute the
		grain.  Jerses?

				JERSES
		Yes.  I can hold the rest of the
		fights until the food is given out,
		that's why everyone came anyway.
		Honestly, he's not really that
		popular, Caesar.

A MUG on Commodus' table suddenly SHATTERS.  He looks at
it like "what the hell?"  The crowd HOWLS.

BELOW

Narcissus picks up ROCKS and throws them up at the
imperial box.  Adonis tries to drag him off as Dala
clutches the swords.

The audience goes completely NUTS -- some spectators in
the cheap seats actually keel over from spasms of
laughter.

Praetorian Guard immediately move in front of Commodus and
the crowd BOOS them.  At the same time more and more call
Narcissus name.  Dala and Adonis grab Narcissus and pull
him off the sand as the crowd continues to go nuts.

				COMMODUS
		Kill him!  Tribuus -- execute that
		bastard.

				LUCILLA
		You can't do that!  You came here to
		turn the crowd around not make them
		hate you.

Commodus stands and pushes aside the Praetorian Guard so
the crowd can see him.  He smiles, making the best of it.
The Good Seats applaud his effort.

				COMMODUS
		Tribuus... tomorrow.

				LUCILLA
		You're coming back?

				COMMODUS
		I have to come back.  If I don't
		come back the people will think I'm
		a coward.  Tribuus, tomorrow he dies
		-- I want his blood on the sand.  Do
		you understand?

				TRIBUUS
		Yes, Caesar?

				COMMODUS
		Jerses -- tomorrow...

THE TRENCHES

As the other gladiators hold Narcissus back -- his eyes
are wild, months of hate crashing to the surface.  He
pulls loose and sits.

				JERSES (O.S.)
		On this next day, Emperor Commodus
		will give out double this same
		amount of grain and loaves of fresh
		bread from the Imperial ovens!

COMMODUS STANDS

and the crowd goes wild... he smiles and nods grimly.
Looks like today he's had the last word.

INT.  GLADIATOR WAGON - LATE AFTERNOON

Narcissus breathing hard as if he were still resonating
from a rush of renewal.  Proximo sits opposite with a
guard, absolutely gleeful -- wrapping his hands together
and all but muttering "O-boy, o-boy, o-boy!"

				PROXIMO
		Throwing rocks at the Emperor!  I
		can't tell you how much I love that!
		Oh, Gods, thank you!
				(to Adonis)
		When we get back -- wine for our
		hero.  The best red from Moselle!
		Not that piss from Crete!  Wine
		that's not the color of blood is no
		wine!

Kids race alongside the wagon shouting his name -- people
they pass wave and shout for Narcissus.  Now PEOPLE mob
the wagon, and it slows.  Narcissus still seems to be
recovering, it's as if his mind were ascending from hell
back to the daylight.

Proximo edges closer so no one else will hear.

				PROXIMO
		At the end of the day I was
		approached by the Golden Pompeii
		Olive Oil company.  Small, but
		profitable.  They asked if you would
		endorse their oil.  We could get
		some very nice posters.  Make some
		very big money...

				NARCISSUS
		What would the poster say:
		"Narcissus would kill for a taste of
		Golden Pompeii Olive Oil?"

				PROXIMO
		Think about it!  Just think about
		it!

				DALA
		Look at that!  That's new!

Narcissus looks out through the bars as they pass a square
and a large STATUE OF COMMODUS.

				PROXIMO
		The big push is on, for the month of
		Janus approaches!

EXT.  PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - NEAR DUSK

As Armed Slaves unload the gladiators, two separate
Narcissus and bring him to Proximo.

				PROXIMO
		We're going some place tonight.
		Don't even think about trying to
		escape you'll be heavily guarded.
		We're going to a party where Adonis
		will beat the brains out of some
		fool.  Your presence has been
		requested.

INT.  DOMUS - PRIVATE GYMNASIUM - NIGHT

A palatial private residence in Rome.  Judging from the
heavily embroidered togas this is a high-end crowd:
'equites publicani'.

Narcissus sits on a chair, wrists cuffed, flanked by armed
slaves, watching as Adonis squares off with a tall, lean
EGYPTIAN.  They both wear leather gloves studded with
spikes.  The Egyptian nails Adonis who totters bloody from
the blow -- and the CROWD moves in blocking the view.

A SERVANT sets three dishes on tripod stands for guests to
wander past and help themselves.

The FIRST is a pile of FISH HEADS -- remarkable for their
ENORMOUS GAPING EYES.  The SECOND is a spiral of multi-
colored BIRD EGGS.  A YOUNG MAN cracks an egg, hold it up
and a whole BIRD EMBRYO drops into his mouth.  He clamps
down on it with a CRUNCH.

Narcissus sees TWO ATTRACTIVE GIRLS watching him from
across the room.  They whisper, giggle, and approach.
Then they pause by the three dishes.  The girls are
suddenly right in front of Narcissus.

				GIRL #1
		You're Narcissus, aren't you?  The
		gladiator?  My sister has something
		she wants to give you...

Girl #2 kneels, parts his legs so she can get very close
and opens her mouth.  In the cup of her tongue is a huge
FISH EYE.  Apparently she wants him to suck it off.
Narcissus might actually be tempted, but...

				NARCISSUS
		I've eaten, but thank you...

Girl #2 makes a show of swallowing the eye.  She climbs
off her knees, kisses Narcissus, then arm in arm she and
her sister leave.

Narcissus' eyes are drawn to the third bowl and it seems
to contain BRIGHTLY COLORED CHIPS.  But they MOVE...
they're LIVING BUTTERFLIES dusted with a sparkling colored
coating of diluted honey.  Helpless in the bowl, their
wings fold and unfold.

Proximo arrives with six very wealthy-looking MEN in tow.
While slaves bring up chairs Proximo casually scoops up a
handful of butterflies and pops them into his mouth like
Fritos.

Chairs are brought up for each and they all sit directly
opposite Narcissus and study him as if he were some piece
of art.

				PROXIMO
		Gentlemen, Narcissus The Good!

Hmm... they continue to study him.  Then a GREY HAIRED MAN
sorts himself out of the guests and approaches.  It's
Gracchus.

				GRACCHUS
		Who are you?  Narcissus The Good?  I
		have heard of Narcissus Meridas.
		That's who I hear you are.

				NARCISSUS
		You're hearing about somebody else.

				GRACCHUS
		How did you get condemned to the
		arena without a trial?

				NARCISSUS
		When the Senate and the Emperor
		agree miracles can happen.

				GRACCHUS
		Would you support the Senate if they
		would give you a trial?  You'd have
		to give me your word.

				NARCISSUS
		I need to give you my word when
		yours is worth nothing?

				GRACCHUS
		You're a citizen and a soldier.  Not
		a gladiator.

				NARCISSUS
		You don't know how wrong you are.

INT.  COLOSSEUM - NEXT DAY

Narcissus waits with the other gladiators.  Proximo
approaches Narcissus.  An Arena Slave hands Narcissus a
sword and shield.

				PROXIMO
		Jerses is pitting you against one of
		Lykas' Dimachaeri -- Saturnus...

				BAD TEETH
		A two-sword; light armor, Saturnus
		is one of Lykas' best, very fast.
		The Emperor is behind this.  First
		Crassus, now you're dead.

CENTER ARENA

As soon as Narcissus steps out the crowd goes wild.

Dozens of people call his name.  Saturnus holds two
swords, one short and the other long with an X-shaped
head.  For a moment the audience goes quiet as the two
face off.  Narcissus YELLS:

				NARCISSUS
		Surrender or I'll kill you.

The crowd loves it -- some cheer.  Saturnus flips his
short sword into a stabbing position, holds out his long
sword.  Narcissus charges whaling at him with his shield.

Taken completely off-guard Saturnus dodges -- and TRIPS.
Narcissus is on him -- crushing down on his head with his
shield.  Saturnus flails wildly -- cuts Narcissus on the
right with the long sword.  Narcissus yanks the short
sword out of the man's hand and kills him with it.  The
crowd GASPS.

Narcissus reels to his feet, drops his shield and grips
his wound which spews blood.  Then he sees 'PLUTO'
approaching with his death hammer.

THE GLADIATORS

rush to the doorway, shout his name, urging him on.

NARCISSUS

Staggers, keeps moving as Pluto dogs his steps waiting for
Narcissus to fall.  He gets within twenty feet of the
doorway... suddenly looks like he's going to fall --
there's a GASP from the crowd.

AND COMMODUS --

On the edge of his seat.

NARCISSUS

Gives Pluto the hard stare... and DROPS -- but all the
Proximo gladiators rush out and he falls into Bad Teeth's
arms.  The crowd ROARS.

				COMMODUS
		Give out the food -- quickly!

INT.  GLADIATOR WAGON - AFTERNOON

Narcissus barely wakes.  Adonis works desperately to stop
the wound as Proximo squats nearby crazy with anxiety.
The GANG KIDS jog along side the wagon, deathly quiet as
they watch.  The Blonde Kid reaches in through the bars
with a small mug of water.

				BLOND KID
		Don't die Narcissus!  It's
		Narcissus!  Narcissus The Good!

Narcissus agonizingly reaches up and clasps it -- for a
second the boy holds on, then lets it go.  Now the Cute
Whore appears frantically blowing him kisses as if they
could somehow save him.  Now more and more hands reach in
through the bars as citizens hear his name and crowd
around.

				PROXIMO
		Don't die, general!  One third!  One
		third!  After today everyone will
		know your name!

INT.  SENATE - MORNING

Gracchus stands before the body of Senators.

				GRACCHUS
		No trial!  No defense!  Narcissus
		Meridas, general of the VIIth Felix
		Gemini legions!  How could this
		happen?

Senate breaks into muttering and some yell for Falco to
speak -- very reluctantly he does.

				FALCO
		I was one who agreed with the
		Emperor to do this thing along with
		Senator Gaius!

Shouts of outrage.

				FALCO
		And with good reason:  we were
		trying to avoid civil war!

				VOICE
		But he deserved a full trial!  Sit
		down, Falco!  Gaius!  Gaius!

				GAIUS
		Narcissus Meridas deserves a full
		trial!  Yes!  Let the Senate become
		the champion of the people!

				VOICES
		Yes!  Yes!

				GAIUS
		And then let the Senate crush their
		hopes, further humiliate Narcissus
		by sending him back to the arena,
		and let us by all means make the
		Emperor look good while we do it!

				FALCO
		The truth of it is that he defied a
		direct order of his Emperor and the
		acting Senate!

				GRACCHUS
		It was a disgraceful order!

More shouts as Senators stand at will.

				GAIUS
		Narcissus is guilty as charged and
		this body would have to lie long to
		find otherwise!

				VOICE
		Sit down you traitor!

				GAIUS
		I will not sit down!  I will not sit
		down!

The Senate disintegrates into squabbling.

INT.  NARCISSUS' CELL - NEAR DUSK

Narcissus slowly wakes.  He sees Adonis and Dala.  Though
Dala slumps in a corner, asleep, Adonis carefully crushes
garlic bulbs in a mortar.  Confused, his eyes stray around
the room and fix on a CRUDE POSTER OF HIMSELF holding up a
sword nailed to the wall.

Proximo enters, kicks Dala awake and kneels beside
Narcissus.  He helps him sip water.

				PROXIMO
		General, hang on... drink slowly.
		You are blessed by the Gods to have
		a physician and a Divine of Janus
		with you tonight.  A fan sent them
		to you.

				NARCISSUS
		Alive... I'm alive...

Narcissus seems disappointed, disoriented and at first,
possibly delirious.  The doctor kneels on his right, the
Divine on the left.

				PROXIMO
		Your fans have gathered below in a
		vigil.  Even the Senate, that swamp
		of double talking dung beetles is
		discussing you.

The Doctor carefully works on his arm taking garlic from
Adonis and smearing it on the wound.

				DIVINE
		I'm here to guide you through the
		gates of Janus, general.

				NARCISSUS
		My daughters, my wife.  Are they
		there?

But the Divine shuts her eyes, muttering almost inaudibly.
The Doctor works -- as if it were a contest between the
pair.  The door opens and Vednas pokes his head in,
gestures to Proximo who exits.

Narcissus looks up at the two windows and sees FACES
peering in at him.  They're the other GLADIATORS who live
in Proximo's school.  One is tying a charm of leopard
claws to the bars.

Then the door opens and Lucilla is ushered in by an ultra
fawning Proximo.  Lucilla wears a veil which she lowers as
she sits beside Narcissus.

				LUCILLA
		I knew they'd never kill you.

It takes Narcissus a second to focus and when he sees he
grabs her by the throat with his good arm -- Proximo and
Adonis pry him loose... for a second Lucilla chokes.

				LUCILLA
		It's my brother's neck you want, not
		mine.

				NARCISSUS
		Yours will do!

Narcissus winces with pain from the effort and Lucilla
leans beside him against the wall.

				DOCTOR
		General, you nearly opened your
		wound.

				LUCILLA
		Keep that up and you'll make
		everyone happy.

				NARCISSUS
		Proximo, if this is her doctor he's
		an assassin.

				PROXIMO
		Don't be ridiculous.

				ADONIS
		If you die, general, I'll kill them
		both for you.

The Doctor and the Divine look at Adonis, then to Lucilla
for a clue.

				LUCILLA
		I came here to see that you stay
		alive.  The people need a living
		breathing alternative to Commodus, a
		hero.

				NARCISSUS
		You mean a symbol of someone who
		doesn't exist.

				LUCILLA
		But you do exist.  Narcissus:  hero
		of the battle of the Danube.

Narcissus tries to laugh, but it just hurts.

				LUCILLA
		You've got the Senate scared they'll
		have to explain to the people how
		they joined the Emperor in illegally
		condemning you.  And Commodus, he
		lies awake thinking how he could
		kill you, and finally rid himself of
		my father.  You are the only man in
		Rome no one can touch.  Live,
		Narcissus Meridas, the citizens of
		Rome protect you now.

The Doctor hands Lucilla a damp cloth and while he
finishes bandaging the wound leaving a long lamp wick to
help it drain, she gets closer and wipes his forehead.
The longer she does it the more it becomes a caress.

				NARCISSUS
		Twenty years I've led men to die.
		For me it was the glory of Rome.
		But that was something.  If it
		wasn't that, then it was the pay or
		the loot of the next whore -- but
		that was something!  These men here
		are butchered for laughs!  Their
		lives are like jokes delivered in
		the back alley theaters where their
		death is a punch line!

				LUCILLA
		For the sake of the Gods, you're not
		leading these men?  How like my
		father you are.  You 'believe'... I
		guess that's why you're still alive.

Narcissus grips the Divine by the sleeve.

				NARCISSUS
		When the door is open, I'll be ready
		to pass through.

Lucilla looks over at Proximo, then the Doctor.  Proximo
nods and backs out of the room.

				DOCTOR
		Jove's hands are on him now.

As Narcissus starts to fade again she gestures them out
and they dutifully follow Proximo.

				NARCISSUS
		To think I brought my daughters up
		on all things Roman.  Read to sleep
		on Catullus, Lucretius... Virgil...
		every night.  My beautiful
		daughters.

				LUCILLA
		Do you remember your Epictetus, that
		little homily we recited when we
		were children?  The one that was
		supposed to remind us we were
		Romans?

She holds Narcissus' head, daubing away the perspiration
with the cloth.

				LUCILLA
		"If you consider yourself to be only
		one thread of many in the tunic,
		then it is fitting for you to be
		like the rest of men, just as the
		thread has no desire to be any
		better than the other threads.
		But..."

				NARCISSUS
		"But what if I wish to be purple?"

They smile recalling the old, childhood words.

				NARCISSUS/LUCILLA
		"A small part, which is bright, and
		makes all the rest appear graceful
		and beautiful."

				LUCILLA
		"Why then do you tell me to make
		myself like the many?"

				NARCISSUS
		"For if I do, how shall I still be
		purple?"

Now they laugh, finding this connection.  But Lucilla
knows exactly where she's going.

				LUCILLA
		"Then when you ask me the question,
		whether death is preferable of life?
		I say "life."  "Pain or pleasure?"
		I say "pleasure."

She kisses him and as best he responds.  In the end the
best both can do is get close on his blanket.

				LUCILLA
		You cannot die.

				NARCISSUS
		Would that Marcus had lived.

				LUCILLA
		Marcus would have lived but... was
		poisoned by his son.

				NARCISSUS
		He killed his father and then my
		family...

				LUCILLA
		Narcissus, I have your family.
		They're alive.  All of them.

Narcissus forces himself to sit up -- in fact he tries to
stand but just can't.

				NARCISSUS
		Where are they?

				LUCILLA
		Hidden.  Where my brother cannot
		place hands on them.  He didn't have
		the guts to watch them die so... I
		took care of it all.  The sooner he
		is put out of our misery, the sooner
		will they be safe.

EXT.  PALATINE HILL - PALACE - NIGHT

Commodus looks out over Rome from the broad palace window.
Lucilla enters, dismisses her slaves.  Commodus is fixed
on the only sound:  voices of people WAILING.

				COMMODUS
		Where have you been?

				LUCILLA
		Taking my pleasure.  Do I need to
		clear my lovers with you?

				COMMODUS
		You must start clearing everything
		with me -- especially your lovers.

				LUCILLA
		Why are you so surly -- you've won,
		brother.  The people have bread and
		the city is quiet.

				COMMODUS
		What is that... wailing?

				LUCILLA
		The fans of Narcissus.  They were on
		vigil outside the school of Proximo.
		They believe he's dying.

First time we've ever seen Commodus so pleased.

				COMMODUS
		Now that is a happy sound!
		Tomorrow, I want the citizens -- my
		people -- back in the arena.  The
		Gods know, I'm tired.  Come to bed,
		now; tonight we're celebrating.

				LUCILLA
		What are you talking about?

				COMMODUS
		Now that we're done with that
		infatuation forever.

				LUCILLA
		If I ever loved Narcissus it wasn't
		like you want.

				COMMODUS
		But I get what I want, always, don't
		I?

He presses her against the wall and she shoves him back
sinking her nails into his face.  But he pushes her down
on her knees as he twists her head back by her hair.

				COMMODUS
		Thanks to you I've been studying up
		on all the great times of my
		predecessors in the Colosseum:
		Domitian had the daughters of
		conquered kings raped to death by
		Chimpanzees -- Vespasian's
		unfaithful mistress pulled apart by
		elephants; like they, I can do
		anything so long as the citizens --
		that stinking mob -- approves.

He yanks her to her feet -- she struggles again but he
slams her against the marble wall, laughing.

				COMMODUS
		Come now, surely I'm more handsome
		than a Rhinoceros or an elephant.

Dazed, Lucilla allows Commodus to walk her toward his
bedroom.  But he pauses by the window again to hear the
cries.  Then he yanks her toward the bedroom.

									FADE TO:

INT.  FARM HOUSE - COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT

Manto and Themis on the rough floor by a blazing hearth as
Selene reads from the AENEID.

				SELENE
		So clash their swords, and so their
		shields resound.
		Jove sets the beam; in either scale
		he lays:
		The champions' fate, and each
		exactly weighs.
		On this side, life and lucky chance
		ascends;
		Heavy with death, that other scale
		descends...

INT.  COMMODUS BEDROOM - DAWN

ON A PAINTING of leopards being captured for the circus.
It drifts like a dream over a bed where Commodus seems to
float in silk and linen.  Lucilla lies asleep, face down
naked but partly buried in the silk.  Distant CHEERS from
far below jar him AWAKE.  Then Lucilla slowly wakes...

EXT.  SCHOOL OF PROXIMO - DAWN

On a terrace over-looking the streets Proximo and Cos
flank and support Narcissus.

Clearly still in intense pain, he's determined to let the
people know he's alive.  Proximo is a human grin.

Narcissus surveys these faces, POOR PEOPLE mainly, common
WORKERS, probably UNEMPLOYED.  Then he picks out the gang-
kids... all look to him as a hero.  Beside them the Cute
Whore... wearing a purple wig.  Narcissus raises his hand,
waves and they break into cheering.

ON NARCISSUS

Feeling something overwhelming as the breeze blows up from
the forum carrying the cheers of the crowd.

INT.  GLADIATOR STORE HOUSE

as Proximo and Cos watch Narcissus prowl through heaps of
armor looking for just the right 'effect'.  He sets a
gaudy silver inlaid bronze helmet aside.   

				PROXIMO
		It will be good luck for you to wear
		that helmet... It belonged to Cimon
		of Smyrna... he was crushed by an
		elephant.

				NARCISSUS
		Lucky it didn't step on his head.

Proximo and Cos swap looks.  Narcissus comes up with a
battered but wildly designed lorica segmentata studded
with cheap gems and a SMILING SUN FACE of brass... he sets
it aside.  Then from the junk and comes up with a PLUME...

				COS
		So tell me, what happened between
		you and the emperor?  What really
		happened on the German front?  You
		know the Senate's arguing your
		case...

				NARCISSUS
		That's their job, isn't it?  To
		argue.  So, I think my case will be
		long on talk and short on action.

				COS
		I am prepared to write anything you
		tell me.

Narcissus goes back to sorting armor.

				NARCISSUS
		My birth sign is Water Bearer,
		twenty-fifth day in the month of
		Janus.

				COS
		The exact month when the Emperor
		must be confirmed!

Narcissus allows himself a smirk; he knows what Cos really
wants to hear.  Cos writes fast.  Proximo looks from one
to the other a little confused.

				NARCISSUS
		The Emperor and I are bound by the
		threads of The Fates.  He was born
		on August thirty-first, you know.

				COS
		That makes his birth sign... Virgo!
		Why that's the sign of a little
		girl!  Can you tell my readers more
		about your star-crossed connection
		with Emperor Commodus?

				NARCISSUS
		Proximo, we need to talk about my
		one third... I imagine the betting
		booths will be doing good business.
		And, what was the name of that olive
		oil company?

				PROXIMO
		Yes, of course, we'll go over
		everything -- but Cos has a
		wonderful surprise!  This is all
		over the city!

Cos unrolls a copy of the Daily Action and proudly reads
his own words.

				COS (READING OVER)
		"Like Orpheus who ascends from
		death's clutches, Narcissus The Good
		has thrown back hell's gate!"

INT.  PALACE - PALATINE HILL - MORNING

Commodus glares at a poster of Narcissus on the table as
Lucilla reads from the Daily Action.  She takes enormous
pleasure in this.

				LUCILLA
		"... encased in the armor of a
		demigod, Narcissus The Good
		continues his impossible climb in
		the arena where he was unjustly
		cast..."

				COMMODUS
		Yes?  Go on!

				LUCILLA
		"... by the emperor of Rome.
				(pause)
		This writer asks:  between a Senate
		that debates truth until they choke,
		an Emperor who has the birth sign of
		a woman, is it possible there is
		more virtue within the arena than
		without?"

Commodus looks like his head is going to explode...
SHOUTING VOICES RISE OVER...

EXT.  COLOSSEUM ARENA - MORNING

Narcissus messages his arm parading with the gladiators in
his gaudy armor shiny as the massive chrome bumpers of a
'59 Caddy, his wild plumed helmet under his arm.  People
shout 'Narcissus!', and 'General!'  He raises his arms
overhead like a super-hero -- accepting, encouraging and
getting the wild adulation of the crowd.

Narcissus breaks away from the line of gladiators --
blowing kisses to the girls, absurdly striking muscle-man
poses -- and the crowd goes completely berserk --
Narcissus is their man and they chant his name over and
over.

'TRENCHES'

As Narcissus comes in from the arena Proximo gleefully
hands him a fresh poster.

				PROXIMO
		No more bad luck now!  The people
		are anticipating you!  I have
		posters up over half the city
		advertising you as the great warrior
		-- the true Roman!  The man who
		fought side by side with the wolf of
		Rome!

				NARCISSUS
		Make us rich, Proximo, make us very
		rich...

INT.  COLOSSEUM HALL

Colosseum Slaves shove Narcissus and the other gladiators
against the walls as the double doors leading to the
street swing wide and a CHARIOT drawn by two WHITE HORSES
THUNDER DOWN THE HALL.

				DALA
		It's Tiger!  'Tiger of Death!'

THE ARENA

The TIGER OF DEATH charges into the arena.  At his side is
Commodus, hair and beard GLINTING WITH GOLD -- he wears a
loin-skin gladiator costume.  Tiger races brutally forcing
the horses to 'skid' on their hind legs rodeo-style.

Cos joins them, reads from the scroll handed him by the
Praetorian Guard.

				COS
		"Caesar Commodus discovering his
		lineage converges with the Demigod,
		Hercules, has determined to display
		his magnificence before his beloved
		citizens."  The Emperor's going to
		fight in the arena.  I'm supposed to
		write this for tomorrow's edition.

				PROXIMO
		Commodus... he's a gladiator... is
		he mad?

To an eerie silence Commodus is escorted into the imperial
box by Guards.  All eyes are on him in his invisible
passage inside the Colosseum -- catching up with him as he
emerges into the imperial box.  Still that silence.

Realizing the crowd is confused Commodus gestures toward
Tiger who immediately struts for the fans who now see
reason to CHEER.

Dressed in gold and silver inlaid gladiator armor, Tiger
is fifty, but the guy looks terrific -- got muscles on
muscles.  Maybe bald, he wears a gaudy flowing RED WIG.
His chariot is a tight-framed sport model, tough and
cutting-edge.

				DALA
		This is the man!  Tiger is the only
		living gladiator ever to win the
		Wooden Sword!

				NARCISSUS
		What's the wooden sword?

				PROXIMO
		A symbol of something no one ever
		gets to keep the gladiators fighting
		hoping they'll get it anyway.
		Freedom, is the wooden sword.  If
		you perform extraordinary feats, the
		Emperor can award you the wooden
		sword... and you're free.

ARENA

Tiger of Death waves the audience to silence.  Then he
turns and bows deeply to Commodus.

				TIGER OF DEATH
		My people!  I have returned!
				(deafening cheers)
		How I have missed my glory days in
		this arena!  And this is truly the
		most glorious day in the history of
		the Colosseum -- in the splendid
		history of Rome!  Caesar is to enter
		the arena as a gladiator!  At long
		last an Emperor with enough guts to
		be one of us!  Upon receiving this
		news I raced here in my new chariot
		straight from Ostia -- nonstop!  It
		took me only four hours and these
		new wood and leather wheel springs
		designed by my personal craftsmen
		smoothed out all the ruts!

A gush of 'OOOs' from the crowd.  As Tiger shamelessly
flogs his vehicle, the retainer slowly walks it around the
perimeter of the Colosseum.(3)

				ADONIS
		Caesar must have promised Tiger if
		he helped him he could flog his
		crappy chariots in the Colosseum

NARCISSUS

watches as the crowd reacts to the fabulous absolutely-
out-of-reach sport chariot.  Some GASP.  A WOMAN covers
her mouth and sobs...

				TIGER OF DEATH
		The rails are crafted of the finest
		black Akee from Africa.  The
		passenger shell rendered light by
		alternating the orange Cedar of The
		Lebanon with through-cut cream Manna
		Ash from Gaul -- The entirety of
		this sublime structure is secured
		with Abyssinian Gilead Resins and
		cold forged brazen pegs!

A portly rich MAN in a toga the size of a tent -- and who
couldn't fit in the chariot if you used a twelve-foot
shoehorn -- gestures to Tiger.

				TOGA TENT
		Tiger!  Is it possible for mortals
		to acquire such a vehicle?

				TIGER OF DEATH
		Mortals -- never!  For like
		Phaethon, son of Helios, who could
		not control his father's sun-
		chariot, the unskilled would
		certainly crash!  But I see you are
		a friend of Caesar you must be no
		mortal!  I will take your order.

GLADIATOR AREA

Proximo puts his hand on Narcissus' shoulder.

				PROXIMO
		Tiger's challenged you and Jerses
		has made me an offer, made us both
		an offer:  you take a fall.

				NARCISSUS
		What the hell are you talking about,
		Greek?

Proximo gestures to Adonis who folds aside a cloth
revealing a brown leather BLADDER.

				PROXIMO
		You put this inside your shirt --
		when Tiger stabs your stomach --
		it's full of pig's blood.  Gushes
		out everywhere!  It's really
		impressive.  Fantastic!  Better than
		the real thing!

				NARCISSUS
		So I pretend I'm dead.  You get
		gold, what do I get?

				PROXIMO
		You get to come alive again in the
		country!

				NARCISSUS
		As, what, 'The Galloping Gladiator?!'

				PROXIMO
		The point is you get to fight the
		easy country circuit, the small
		arenas, relax, live the good life!

				NARCISSUS
		Spend my days beheading country
		bumpkins?  I don't know, Proximo,
		who has better wine than you?
		Besides, I'm beginning to think of
		the Colosseum as my home.

				PROXIMO
		But -- you have to go out there!
		I'll give you more than your one
		third!  When I get paid... just take
		the fall!  You're too hurt to fight
		and the man's a killer!

				NARCISSUS
		Pressures on, eh Proximo?  There's
		got to be a load of money in this.
		Why else would you toss a red hot
		commodity like me out the window?

				PROXIMO
		It's absolutely not like that!  This
		is for your own good!  Come on get
		the rest of your armor on!

But Adonis approaches holding Narcissus' shield.

				ADONIS
		General?  Do you want me to strap on
		a shield?  You can't hold it.

In reply Narcissus lifts his injured arm as much as he can
and Adonis works to attach the shield.  Then he checks
with Narcissus -- who seems noncommittal -- and stuffs the
bladder under his shirt.  Outside the CHANTING rises.

				NARCISSUS
		Tell me honestly, since this may be
		our last earthly meeting:  if this
		were a fair fight where would you
		put your money?

				PROXIMO
		On you!  Of course!  You are my
		bravest fighter -- the best fighter
		I have ever seen!

				NARCISSUS
		Such nobility from such an ignoble
		mouth.  Take my advice and make that
		bet.

				PROXIMO
		Oh, shit.  Take your time!  Don't
		get suckered!  This man is a
		murderer!  In his career he's killed
		over a thousand gladiators.  Please,
		just take the fall!

ARENA

Narcissus steps into the blistering sun.  The crowd in the
cheap seats is on its feet applauding.

COMMODUS

sits in his box watching grim-faced.  To his right sits
Lucilla.  Falco sits near the emperor.

				TRIBUUS
		He's going to take the fall.  It's
		all set.  He must, he was almost
		killed yesterday.  He has no choice.
		By morning he'll be gone.

ARENA

As soon as Narcissus steps forward Tiger swirls around to
face him, beckons dramatically.

				TIGER OF DEATH
		Come my sweet!  The sacred sand of
		the arena lust for another life!
		Satisfy her hungering!

Then the cheap seats chant as one:

				CROWD
		Surrender or I'll kill you!

Tiger looks around, stunned.  Narcissus yanks the bladder
out of his shirt -- holds it up for all to see and stabs
it gushing blood onto the sand.

GASPS from the crowd and Tiger realizes he's in deep
guano.

The crowd works itself up again -- the noise they make is
that accelerating train sound of a British Football Mob.

COMMODUS...

Furious but trying to stay calm.  Lucilla can't hide a
smirk of perverse pleasure.

				LUCILLA
		Looks like old Tiger is going to
		have a good old fashion fight on his
		hands.

ARENA

Tiger charges Narcissus.  The crowd shouts as their swords
cross and the battle is on.  The two RAGE AT EACH OTHER.

COMMODUS

... motions to Tribuus.

				COMMODUS
		Tell Lykas to send a retiarius and a
		Samnite to help Tiger.

				LUCILLA
		You can't do that... listen to the
		mood of the crowd.

				COMMODUS
		I want that bastard dead!

				LUCILLA
		You want control of the crowd -- you
		can't get it by killing their hero.

				COMMODUS
		I am their hero!

				LUCILLA
		Not yet, dear brother...

				COMMODUS
		Send them out!

THE ARENA...

Narcissus HAMMERS at Tiger as if he were trying to chop
down a huge tree -- every blow rattles the old pro.  With
each blow the crowd in the cheap seats echoes with:
"Yes! -- Yes! -- Yes!"

Then a RETIARIUS and a SAMNITE -- a lightly armed Italian
(non-Latin) warrior with a jag-edge sword -- enter and
move in on Narcissus.  The crowd erupts in thunderous
BOOING hurling Commodus' food back into the arena.  Just
as suddenly Bad Teeth and Vednas shove into the arena to
flank Narcissus -- but they're unarmed.

PROXIMO

kicks a Slave -- yells out at them.

				PROXIMO
		Jack asses!  You'll all die!  Get
		back in here!

The crowd chants:  "ARM THEM -- ARM THEM!"  That's good
enough for Proximo -- he kicks the slave again.

ARENA

Two Arena Slaves dart out, hand Bad Teeth and Vednas
swords, run off and the crowd CHEERS.  For a second
Narcissus spots Dala near the gate.

COMMODUS

watches the fight but Lucilla studies Commodus.  Clearly
Narcissus is driving him mad.

ARENA

The battle now shapes up even, Bad Teeth driving the
Samnite back, Vednas and the retiarius circling.
Narcissus and Tiger LOCK ARMS -- swords frozen overhead,
they try to power the other down and it becomes a test of
strength.  Narcissus starts to cave from the pain to his
wound.

COMMODUS

Stands -- this could be it... EVERYONE STANDS...

ARENA

But Narcissus digs deep, grits his teeth and Tiger
STAGGERS and FALLS, losing his sword.  Instantly he's on
his feet and running like a scared rabbit as a slave rolls
out his chariot.  Tiger leaps into his hot-rod, hefts a
thrusting spear and makes straight for Narcissus.

There's a universal howl of rage from the mob as they fill
the air with pieces of food, sandals -- whatever is loose.
At that moment the Lykas retiarius overwhelms Vednas.

Narcissus dodges Tiger's first charge and as the chariot
swings back into position he surprises the retiarius by
yanking his net backwards toppling the retiarius and
freeing Vednas.

PROXIMO

turns to Dala who's strapping his wrists.

				PROXIMO
		He can't do that!  And what the hell
		are you doing?

				DALA
		Waiting for the general's orders.

ARENA

Bad Teeth and Vednas drive their opponents back:  But then
Narcissus motions Vednas and Bad Teeth back as Tiger lines
up for another run on Narcissus.  Absolutely trusting him
-- like their general in battle -- Vednas and Bad Teeth
move toward Narcissus just as Tiger charges -- and
Narcissus WAVES AT DALA.

				NARCISSUS
		Cavalry!  Attack!

Dala comes HOWLING into the arena on his ostrich buck
naked, spinning his red toga overhead.  Tiger's horses
take one look at this yowling apparition and FREAK -- one
goes left, the other leaps UP -- Tiger's chariot CRASHES
hurling him onto the sand.  The crowd CHEERS in one mad
voice.

This love raining on him, Narcissus motions Bad Teeth and
Vednas back as he stands over the fallen Tiger.  Defeated
and suddenly pitiful, he holds up his trembling forefinger
in the sign for mercy.  But the crowd shouts, stamps their
feet and universally give the "thumbs down."

Narcissus looks around at the howling crowd, but does
nothing and finally they quiet because they can't figure
out why he hasn't killed him.

				NARCISSUS
		He's surrendered!  I can't kill him!

For a second the crowd is dumbfounded.  People look at
each other as if to say "so what?"  Then they start
laughing.

				VOICES
		This isn't the army!  Kill him!
		Kill him!

Narcissus turns his sword around OFFERING THE GRIP TO THE
AUDIENCE.

				NARCISSUS
		Who will do it?

They fall silent again.  Then Narcissus laughs and HURLS
his sword up into the audience.

LOWER SEATS

People duck as the sword clatters on the marble seats.  A
second -- then like a souvenir home-run ball everyone
seems to leap for it at once.  Then EVERYONE LAUGHS as
Narcissus struts back across the arena, really PLAYING THE
CROWD.

COMMODUS...

slowly closes his eyes as if forcing back his rage.

AND PROXIMO

all but doing a jig.

				PROXIMO
		This man!  My god!  He can't do
		anything wrong!  No matter how
		stupid he is!

INT./ EXT.  ROYAL CHAIR - LATE AFTERNOON

Surrounded as usual by Praetorian Guard, Commodus and
Lucilla are carried in the enormous 'chair' by slaves
through Rome.  Commodus looks in the dumps, but then leans
out.

				COMMODUS
		Tribuus!  Go left here, I want to
		see my new statue at Via Claudia.

				TRIBUUS
		Yes, Caesar.

				COMMODUS
		We need more statues -- perhaps I
		should open medical clinics.  For
		the poor.  Citizens only, though...

COMMODUS' POV

In the center of the bustling square is a magnificent
STATUE OF COMMODUS holding up a sword.

But towering over the statue is an ENORMOUS MOSAIC
BILLBOARD OF NARCISSUS HOLDING UP A BOTTLE OF OLIVE OIL.
And it's done as an EXACT IMITATION OF THE POSTURING OF
THE COMMODUS STATUE HOLDING HIS SWORD.  Beneath, in GILT
MOSAIC LETTERS:  "NARCISSUS DRINKS ONLY GOLDEN POMPEII
OLIVE OIL!"

AND COMMODUS...

literally getting the picture.

INT.  COLOSSEUM - GLADIATOR AREA - LATE AFTERNOON

Arena Slaves basically packing it in for the day.  Proximo
slings an arm over Narcissus.

				PROXIMO
		Listen, there's some people who want
		to talk to you.

He indicates A WOMAN, about forty and her son about
twenty.  They look prosperous.

				NARCISSUS
		How much money is involved?

				PROXIMO
		A great deal.  They designed and
		build Tiger's chariot...

				NARCISSUS
		They want to dump Tiger and have me
		endorse their damned chariot, right?
		They don't waste time...

				PROXIMO
		I can really rape them on this!  Can
		I at least tell them you'll think
		about it?

				NARCISSUS
		No.  Tell them I'll do it.  But I
		want more posters all over Rome.

				PROXIMO
		Fantastic!  Wonderful!  But posters
		are very expensive.

				NARCISSUS
		Then get a large cash advance.

				PROXIMO
		Right, right... But they'll have to
		bring in a lawyer.  I don't want to
		get sued over this.

				NARCISSUS
		Before they leave, get gold.

				PROXIMO
		Right, right, what am I thinking of?

				NARCISSUS
		I want another interview with Cos.
		Tell him to bring plenty of ink.

				PROXIMO
		I'll do it!  Sure as there's shit in
		the Tiber we're all going to die,
		but for you -- anything!

				TRIBUUS
		Proximo Palindromos?

				PROXIMO
		Ah!  Already we're dead!

				NARCISSUS
		What do you want, mighty Tribuus?

				TRIBUUS
		Caesar wants to talk.  I've come to
		guarantee Narcissus safety.

				PROXIMO
		You've come to send us to hell!

As they talk other gladiators close around Tribuus.

				DALA
		Our general stays with us.

Tribuus puts hand on his sword.

				TRIBUUS
		Keep away from me, animal!

Vednas and Dala move closer.  Narcissus steps in between
and grabs Tribuus' sword arm.

				NARCISSUS
		Tell your master I'll meet here, on
		the sand.  After the Colosseum
		closes.

Tribuus pulls lose, turns -- and runs smack into Bad Teeth
-- who SMILES.  He shoves past.

INT.  COLOSSEUM - MORNING

Narcissus sits face-to-face with Commodus across a tiny
table.  They have wine and bread.  Just behind Commodus is
Tribuus with the Praetorian Guard.  Narcissus is flanked
by Proximo and his gladiators.

				COMMODUS
		Endorse me in public.  Do that and
		I'll make you rich and set you free.
		I'll return your estates.  I know
		you would give anything to be
		outside again.  Endorse me and you
		will be free.  Think of it.  What
		would you do with your freedom?

				NARCISSUS
		If you set me free I will find my
		way back to the army, march on Rome
		and depose you.  Then, the army and
		I will restore the Republic so that
		animals like you will never control
		human destinies again.

Outraged, Tribuus makes a move toward Narcissus --
immediately the gladiators pull their swords.  For a
second it looks like there's going to be blood shed...
Commodus leans on the table between them and holds up his
fist for emphasis.

				COMMODUS
		Is that how you want to spend your
		life?  You're trapped in the
		Colosseum!

Narcissus GRABS his fist, locks it in his grip.

				NARCISSUS
		So are you...

Bad Teeth smiles at Tribuus again.  Commodus pulls his
hand free...

EXT.  PALACE - PALATINE HILL - LATE AFTERNOON

In a small, circular marble space outside the gardens,
Commodus oiled and stripped to leather shorts wrestles a
really tough looking SLAVE.  Commodus EASILY dominates the
match, clearly becoming a DRIVEN MAN.  Lucilla leads
Tribuus with Jerses and Lykas in tow.

				LYKAS
		Caesar, I am here...

Commodus doesn't even break stride.

				COMMODUS
		Lykas, pick a man.  Someone who will
		look good.  Jerses I want it built
		up in the Daily Action...

				LUCILLA
		Do you want posters, too?

Commodus gives her an evil glare.

INT.  PROXIMO'S INSULA - EARLY EVENING

Narcissus faces-off with Cos and Proximo across a table
laden with food and wine.

				NARCISSUS
		"Bread and circuses," that's all the
		great poet said we Romans need.

Narcissus sees that glazed look in Cos' eyes.  Narcissus
pours them both wine.

				NARCISSUS
		It's time for you to tell the
		Citizens that Commodus stole the
		money allocated for defending the
		German border.  It's time to tell
		the citizens everything.  Will you
		write it?

				COS
		Yes, because I know they'll read it.

				PROXIMO
		Cos, what in hades is the emperor up
		to?  And don't tell me you don't
		know!

				COS
		I don't know...

				PROXIMO
		AGH!  Please!  He's having a secret
		device constructed for the circus.
		The brass craftsmen are working
		overtime.

				COS
		I'll nose around...

				PROXIMO
		You know there were riots last
		night.  Now the unrest has started
		again and Commodus has sent for an
		army division.  You understand what
		you are doing...

EXT.  COLOSSEUM ARENA - DAY

Commodus -- hair sparkling with gold dust, wearing the
Hercules lion skin -- struts into the arena at the head of
the gladiator parade.  This time the audience applauds.

Narcissus enters with the Proximo gladiators behind the
emperor and the volume of the cheers DOUBLES.  Forcing
himself not to turn, Commodus ascends to the imperial box.
Before he sits, two SLAVES carry what looks like a folding
campstool with curved legs.  Cheers as Commodus sits in
it.

EXT.  COLOSSEUM

Narcissus slowly puts on his garish armor as Dala sits
beside him.

				DALA
		What's that stupid stool?

				NARCISSUS
		It's the curule chair.

				DALA
		What in Hades is the curule chair?

				PROXIMO
		Rome's most ancient symbol of
		leadership.  While all other kings
		sat in great stone thrones, Rome's
		leaders were always on the move with
		the army.  Some of her greatest
		emperors barely had time to set foot
		in Rome.  So this cheap little
		folding stool became a powerful
		symbol.

All eyes on Proximo now, Narcissus must be touched to hear
these words from "such an ignoble mouth."  Proximo shrugs
it off, turns to Narcissus.

				PROXIMO
		So, things change.  The government
		has moved to the circus.  You're
		going to fight last.  And Commodus
		is going to fight first.

				NARCISSUS
		You were a soldier, and then a
		gladiator, weren't you?

				PROXIMO
		Was I?

They hold on each other -- then the crowd HOWLS.

				DALA
		Here he comes...

ARENA

Commodus struts onto the sand, muscular body oiled, golden
hair glinting in the sun.  A SLAVE trails behind, then
gets on his knees and offers Commodus a vicious looking
sword.  Commodus holds up the sword CHEERS raining on him,
the crowd going more and more with Commodus.

PROXIMO

joins his gladiators watching the spectacle.

COMMODUS

faces off with a heavily built PERSIAN and immediately
attacks.  The Persian hesitates, but then when he sees
Commodus is serious he fights back.  They swap blow upon
blow and finally Commodus expertly topples the man with a
swipe of his shield.  Silence of disbelief from the
audience -- then they break into prolonged cheering.

Commodus raises his sword, accepting the acclaim.  Then he
KILLS the Persian.  And the crowd loves it.

NARCISSUS

turns away, watches as Commodus joins the Lykas gladiators
in their own 'holding' area on the opposite side of the
arena.

				PROXIMO
		Why don't you let me assemble a sort
		of... how shall I put this,
		'Package' of enterprises which you
		could endorse while leaving all the
		messy business to me?  I don't want
		to over-state the possibilities, but
		I've been approached by cheese-
		makers; a sandal manufacturer; at
		least four wineries; gymnasium
		machines...

Narcissus seems to measure the distance to his rival, then
looks into a dark passage behind with the door left ajar.

				NARCISSUS
		I'm going to leave this all up to
		you, Proximo.  I trust you.
				(off his look)
		Just be prepared to do me a few
		favors in return.

NARCISSUS...

Moves toward the butcher shop, but sees armed slaves at
the doors of the passages beyond.  Still he reaches in
between two hanging racks of ribs for a flat cleaver...
but his hand freezes.

On ice, in a mangled disorder is long hair bearing BELLS.
It's the dismembered corpse of Crassus.

A sweating FAT MAN in a loin cloth sings as he hacks
gladiator bodies to bits.  He pauses, then crosses to the
lip of a sunken CAGE where two lionesses pace.  He heaves
in two HUMAN LEGS, then wanders back as slaves unwrap two
more bodies.

				QUINTUS (O.S.)
		You'd never make it.

Narcissus wheels to confront two Praetorian Guard... and
Quintus.

				NARCISSUS
		You brought the army into Rome.

				QUINTUS
		I was summoned.

				NARCISSUS
		It's your job as a Roman officer to
		disobey such a summons.

				QUINTUS
		It's my job to keep my job.  And
		that, by the way, is now head of
		Praetorian Guard.  Good ole Tribuus
		has been retired.

				NARCISSUS
		Quintus, you've got at least a
		division with you -- we could take
		Rome away from Commodus and give it
		back to the Senate!

				QUINTUS
		You seem to be doing a great job of
		it single-hand!  Narcissus, the
		Republic is dead.  You think those
		Senators could govern?  For the last
		hundred and fifty years they've
		worked hard at kissing an endless
		succession of Imperial asses!

				NARCISSUS
		Then give the empire back to the
		people... the children who will grow
		up to become senators...

				QUINTUS
		The 'people'?, listen to the people,
		they know what they want:  A
		government that gives them what they
		need and doesn't bother them with
		messy thoughts of issues.  You know,
		messy... thinking.  They want a
		dictator!  As far as the children,
		there is only one thing that every
		Roman child dreams of:  being you!
		A famous gladiator!

Quintus gestures to the guards.

				QUINTUS
		We'll escort you back to your new
		pals.  Oh, and let's catch the next
		act, guaranteed to bring the house
		down.  Everyone will be holding
		their breath to what you come up
		with in return...

COLOSSEUM MAIN GATE

As Narcissus turns away, Proximo pulls him aside.  Adonis
joins them.

JERSES RISES

As drums roll ROME PROSTITUTES are pushed out into a far
end of the arena by armed arena slaves.

				JERSES
		In celebration the emperor Commodus'
		triumph in the arena and the God's
		recognition of his divine lineage,
		these prisoners shall be -- in his
		glorious generosity -- freed!  Or,
		Rome shall be freed of this
		pestilence forever!

A DOOR SPRINGS OPEN --

Out roar a BULL and a BEAR chained together...

They're berserk crashing into each other.  The chain is
fastened by a LARGE BRASS LOCK.  An Arena Slave shoves a
Dark-Haired Prostitute into the arena and hands her a
bright metal KEY.

				JERSES
		Prisoner number one!

Commodus stands in his seat and the audience roars its
approval -- this is going to be good!

				BAD TEETH
		That pig!

				JERSES
		Part these raging beasts so that as
		Titans of old they may retire to
		their abodes!  Do so and you part
		the path to your own freedom!  An
		arena attendant waits on you at the
		far end of the Colosseum...

Sure enough, an Arena Slave opens a small door.  The Dark-
Haired Prostitute moves forward toward the animals...

AND NARCISSUS --

Simply cannot believe what he's seeing.

				NARCISSUS
		Gods -- no!

THE PROSTITUTE

runs toward the shrieking beasts -- she lunges for the
lock -- with a vicious snap of his neck the bull impales
her on his right horn and flings the girl over his
shoulder.  The body lands like a twisted doll, bloody in
the perfect sand.

				JERSES
		Prisoner #2!

Prostitute #2 is handed another key and the Arena Slave
once again opens the far door.

				PROXIMO
		Commodus is a mad man, at home in a
		mad world.

				JERSES
		Separate these beasts and be
		separated from us!

Prostitute #2 takes one look at the situation and turns to
bolt back inside.

				QUINTUS
		Now, there's a wise woman.  Some
		people recognize reality when they
		see it.  How's your eye sight these
		days?  Well, look at this:  we have
		a fresh offer for you from the
		Emperor.  Forget being his
		supporter, fight in the arena side
		by side.  Imagine, the two greatest
		gladiators on earth, shoulder-to-
		shoulder against all comers!  It
		will remind everyone of your glory
		days fighting alongside Marcus
		Aurelius!  And you'll be free and
		rich!

Narcissus sends a fleeting glance toward the ARENA as
Prostitute #2 claws at the marble walls.

				COMMODUS
		Now, now!  Would you leave us in the
		midst of our entertainment?!

CRAZED laughter and cheers from the mob.  Arena Slaves
appear with torches and whips beat Prostitute #2 until
finally she rushes toward the animals, screaming...

Narcissus -- turns away as the ROAR OF THE CROWD signals
another death in the arena, Now the Cute Whore is pushed
into the arena and handed a key.  Narcissus charges the
opening but is violently shoved back by Arena Slaves.

				QUINTUS
		What are you fighting for in here?
		The good of Rome?  I can end this
		madness now!  Take the job for the
		sake of the Gods, live!

				NARCISSUS
		Can you stop that slaughter?!  Can
		you free these men?

Quintus shakes his head in frustration.  In the ARENA the
Cute Whore drops the key and as the audience ROARS she
walks to her death.

QUINTUS

turns to leave and Narcissus goes for him and is thrown to
the ground by four huge Praetorian Guard.  Vednas, Dala
and Bad Teeth leap in between them and a sword that was
homing in on Narcissus stops at the last second.  Quintus
clears out and his men follow.  Proximo slumps down beside
Narcissus.

				PROXIMO
		Jerses has you fighting a retiarius
		from the school of Lykas.

				VEDNAS
		The net man!

NARCISSUS ENTERS THE ARENA

and the crowd begins its "surrender or die" chant for
Narcissus and the retiarius HURLS HIS NET -- but timing
his charge Narcissus dashes beneath the net before it even
settles behind him he's knocked aside the retiarius
trident and killed him.  It happens so fast the audience
GASPS before CHEERING.

Narcissus rises, then bathed in cheers he holds his arms
straight in the air and points his sword at Commodus.

				NARCISSUS
		I want you!  I challenge you!  Come
		down here and fight me!
				(to the cheap seats)
		You may battle for the knights and
		equates and Senators -- but I
		challenge you in the name of the
		ordinary citizen of Rome!

For a moment there's dead silence -- and for a moment
Narcissus must wonder if he's gone too far.  Then the mob
EXPLODES to new heights of rapture.  Laughing, Narcissus
holds his arms up to the crowd as if to say:  "Anytime,
any place..."  Then to roars, he struts out of the arena.

IMPERIAL BOX - NEAR DUSK

Commodus slumped in the curule chair.  Quintus, Lucilla
and Falco are with him.

				COMMODUS
		This is the only place in Rome where
		I thought -- I believed -- I was
		wholly in power.

				QUINTUS
		Narcissus will never support you,
		Caesar, he has too much of a
		philosophical temperament.

Commodus gets up, scowls at Falco and paces.

				COMMODUS
		Damn him!  I should have killed him
		on the front -- I let you talk me
		out of that.

				LUCILLA
		You would have had a full scale
		revolt on your hands.

				COMMODUS
		What have I got now?  It's exactly
		as if there were two emperors.
		Because of this the people have two
		minds.  He is their champion.

				QUINTUS
		It's because he comes off as the
		underdog.

				COMMODUS
		Underdog!  How can he be an underdog
		-- he wins all the time!  I'm the
		emperor why can't I kill him?  He
		could be poisoned, or somehow killed
		to look like an accident.

				QUINTUS
		You don't want to kill him.  If
		anything happens to him now you will
		be blamed... and he knows it.
		Besides, that gladiator school is a
		fortress.  It would take the army to
		break in there.  What you want is
		to... offer him the wooden sword.
		If he takes it, he's no longer the
		champion of the people, is he?  He's
		gone.  And you are a hero for
		awarding it.

				LUCILLA
		He wouldn't take the wooden sword,
		not in a thousand years.

				QUINTUS
		You're so sure, aren't you?  If I
		were you I'd gleefully accept his
		challenge.  Despite those who would
		thwart you, my agents have been
		busy.

Commodus looks from Quintus to Falco and Lucilla;
understands he means THEM.

INT.  COLOSSEUM - MORNING

Narcissus sits with his group of gladiators watching Arena
Slaves assemble on the floor of the Colosseum with their
sand 'grooming' tools.

Four huge crates are eased onto the the field on wood
rollers.  The sides are cracked open and bright white SAND
spills out.  SOUND OF THE CROWD SEEMS TO RISE FROM THE
EMPTY SEATS --

									MATCH CUT TO:

PACKED SEATS

The mob well into a day's action.  Dala, mounted on an
ostrich, darts around the arena as he battles A GIANT OF A
MAN who must be seven feet tall.

NARCISSUS

armored-up, checking his sword.  Proximo arrives.

				PROXIMO
		Something strange; I still haven't
		got your fight for the day.

Dala makes a final charge against the 'Giant' and as he
raises his ax and he catches him in the stomach with his
sword.  The crowd thinks it's the funniest thing on earth.

Then two GLADIATORS approach from a side door and position
themselves near Narcissus' entrance.

				JERSES
		Narcissus Meridas!  Come forward!

				PROXIMO
		It's damned fix!  They're going to
		murder you -- I can't watch!

He GAWKS...

THE ARENA

Narcissus steps into the blistering sun and is stunned to
see Commodus approach him, dressed in his lion's skin and
carrying a long, shiny sword.  He looks up at the Royal
Box.

ROYAL BOX

Lucilla and Falco sit flanked by Praetorian Guard.
Quintus enters with SELENE AND HER DAUGHTERS, puts a hand
on each little girl's shoulder.

Narcissus looks as though he's physically struck.  Selene
stares down at him, fighting back tears:  Themis weeps
openly while Manto remains stoic.  He lowers his sword...
Commodus gets near.

				COMMODUS
		Narcissus Meridas!  I accept your
		challenge in the name of the
		Citizens of Rome!

The audience goes crazy -- Commodus slashes out with his
sword and Narcissus instantly parries the blow.  For a
moment Narcissus really turns it on and Commodus back-
pedals... and slowly he lets Commodus get the better of
him until Commodus knocks the sword from his hand.
Humiliated, Narcissus drops to his knees and holds up his
hand for mercy.

But Commodus is so enrage that he lifts his sword to kill
him but... has just enough presence of mind to look up
into the crowd.

THE PEOPLE

shocked... then it spreads from the cheap seats through
the whole arena THUMBS UP!  They chant for Narcissus to be
spared.

AND COMMODUS...

The last circuit breaker of self-preservation in his brain
kicks in and he RAISES HIS ARMS IN TRIUMPH.  He walks
around the arena receiving their cheers -- finally he
feels like Emperor of Rome and tears streak his face.

NARCISSUS

Now, alone in the center of the Colosseum.  Commodus
returns to his box to an endless applause.  This is his
pure 'Triumph of the Will' moment...

				COMMODUS
		Narcissus Meridas.  Such glory as
		you have brought to the arena of
		Rome is redemption for the deeds
		which condemned you here and thus I
		cannot find it in my warrior's heart
		to kill you!

To wild applause Commodus lifts something that's wrapped
in silk, unfolds the silk and holds up a wildly colored
WOODEN SWORD.

				COMMODUS
		I honor you with the gift of the
		wooden sword -- your freedom!  What
		say you citizens of Rome?!

The audience goes into a sustained roar of joy.  Commodus
hands the wooden sword to Quintus who heaves in onto the
sand at Narcissus' feet.  Then random voices demand that
he "SPEAK -- SPEAK!"  While from the cheap seats:  "Don't
leave us!  Refuse the sword!"  This open argument blurs
into a cacophony of howls.  Then the crowd falls silent.

				VOICE
		We love you, Narcissus!

				NARCISSUS
		I am honored that the citizens of
		Rome, after trying their very best
		to kill me for so long -- have
		decided I am no longer worth the
		effort and should be spared!

Roars of laughter.  Narcissus looks around.   

				NARCISSUS
		I am not bitter about you, afterall,
		I have lived very much as you do!
		In fear!  But unlike you, I can lift
		a sword and strike against that fear
		-- and so you dream of being me!
		Today I can walk out.
				(locks eyes with
				Selene)
		Today I will walk out!
				(to the crowd)
		But you are condemned to stay...

Narcissus scoops up a handful of sand and holds it up for
all to see, turning in all directions as the SAND MELTS
THROUGH HIS FINGERS.

				NARCISSUS
		Your lives!  Citizens of Rome,
		consider your lives...

He looks up at Commodus -- and for just a second it seems
he still might refuse -- got Commodus worried.  But then
he picks up the sword.

				NARCISSUS
		I accept... Caesar -- I accept your
		generous offer!

CHEERS of support from the crowd mixed with shouts of
dismay -- the sense that he's really abandoning a segment
of the population.

Commodus glows, realizes that he has finally won.

INT.  GLADIATOR WAGON - LATE DAY

Narcissus sits pressed between Dala and Proximo.  Vednas
holds the coveted wooden sword in his hands like it was a
newborn babe.  No one seems to be able to talk.  Finally
Bad Teeth GRINS.

				BAD TEETH
		Fuck a lot of girls for us!
				(pause)
		Boys too!

				PROXIMO
		I'll have your gold for you.  Even
		the third from the Olive oil.

				NARCISSUS
		I told you to keep the oil money --
		but if you don't want it why don't
		you give it to the men?

Adonis and Dala immediately fix on Proximo.

				PROXIMO
		Let's talk about this later.  Right
		now we have other things to settle.
		You and your family will be leaving
		with a supply ship returning in the
		morning to Ostia.  From there,
		Caesar has decreed you be given an
		estate in Paestum.  It's beautiful;
		an old Greek town right on the
		ocean.  Rich soil.
				(pause)
		Perhaps we could keep our financial
		arrangements... although Caesar will
		give you a sort of pension it's
		always good to look to the future,
		keep your hand in the arena... so to
		speak.

				NARCISSUS
		I want nothing to do with the arena.

				PROXIMO
		Something else, then.  Do the
		chariot races interest you?

KIDS suddenly run alongside the wagon -- faces we've seen
before.  Dressed in their gladiator-esque costumes, but
today looking pretty pitiful.  They call Narcissus' name
-- one reaches in and tries to take his hand but the wagon
speeds up leaving them in the dust.

				DALA
		You beat the odds -- higher than at
		either the blue or the red betting
		booths!

Narcissus searches all the faces he's come to know so well
in such a short time.

				PROXIMO
		So, we had a little spark, and we
		both did very well.  Think of me
		when you're spending that miserable
		pension... in the sticks.

EXT.  TIBER PORT - LATE DAY

The door on the gladiator wagon slips open and Narcissus
stands down.  Praetorian Guard keep back a crowd shouting
Narcissus' name.  Quintus escorts him to the dock and the
waiting boat.

				NARCISSUS
		Are you going to kill me here in
		front of the people of Rome or in
		front of my family?

Quintus stops and they stare at each other.  Quintus
flashes his characteristic smile.

				QUINTUS
		Come on... if you didn't make it to
		Paestum... All Rome would know.
		You're still safe, for now... Take
		my advice, get on that boat and
		don't look back.

Quintus gestures to a legionnaire who stands with his back
to us.

				QUINTUS
		See he gets aboard.

Quintus rushes off with Praetorian Guard.  Ten remain to
keep back a crowd of kids and well-wishers who shout his
name.  Those people are mostly poor, living without hope,
their cheers, the sound of damned souls.

The legionnaire turns and it's the CENTURION, SERVIS.
Narcissus is about to react when Servis simply nods toward
the ship.

EXT.  SHIP'S DECK

as Narcissus climbs on board he spots his family waiting
for him.  Themis launches into his arms.

				THEMIS
		Daddy!

As Themis climbs halfway up his body the rest run to meet
them and they EMBRACE.  Then he sees that Mela and her son
Masinissa are with them.

EXT.  REAR DECK - NEAR DUSK

At a round table set up on the deck Narcissus, Mela,
Selene, Manto, Themis and Masinissa stuff themselves with
bread and fruit.  CREW working the lines and cargo tie-
downs pause to stare at Narcissus -- a super-star in their
midst.

As they talk, Narcissus breaks off bread, passes olives,
oil and fruit, he keeps looking back toward the city where
again a plume of black smoke rises.

				MELA
		Quintus' escort attacked us when we
		were ten leagues from the front.
		All but Juba died there.
				(she hugs her son)
		We'll get out of Italy somehow and
		back to Numidia.  I'll raise him
		like his father.

				MANTO
		Lucilla saved our lives, father.
		Everybody wanted to kill us.

				SELENE
		Manto's right, the leading Senators
		fell in with Commodus and wanted us
		sacrificed.

				MELA
		If Quintus found us, Lucilla... her
		days are numbered.

Servis returns with some charred lamb and as he lays it
out Narcissus pulls up a stool so he can sit with them.

				NARCISSUS
		What's happening out there?

				SERVIS
		The Felix troops have gone over to
		the Senate.  Tonight will decide
		everything.  They're fighting the
		Rome Legions and the Praetorian
		Guard.

				NARCISSUS
		Why did Quintus bring in Felix
		troops with the Rome legions?

				SERVIS
		He wanted to make sure Felix wasn't
		strong enough back at the front to
		revolt.  But when these legionnaire
		heard about you...

Narcissus rises to study the horizon.  He looks like a
General again.

INT.  'CABIN' - NIGHT

Narcissus and Selene wake to the sound of someone opening
their door.  Narcissus see it's Servis and follows him
out.  Selene watches the pair framed in the opening in
silhouette.  A THIRD MAN joins them.

IT'S PROXIMO

His slave sets a small chest down beside Narcissus.  Then
he hands him a large, thick piece of paper.  Narcissus
quickly reads it by lamp light.

				PROXIMO
		Your gold, general.  Commodus has
		gone crazy -- he's declared martial
		law.  People arrested after curfew
		will be used as human torches to
		light the Colosseum.  I must get
		back to seal up the school against
		the riots.  Spend this wisely.

Narcissus stops him.

				NARCISSUS
		Lucilla?  Any word?

Proximo hesitates, but...

				PROXIMO
		It is my position to know that...
		likely she is to be sacrificed in
		the arena.  Tomorrow.

Narcissus digests this, then:

				NARCISSUS
		Commodus must hate you.  Free your
		gladiators and come with us.

				PROXIMO
		Are you mad?  With all this unrest
		the Colosseum will be open day and
		night!  Anyway, I'm not political,
		I'm in the entertainment business.

EXT.  DECK - NIGHT

Narcissus watches Proximo scurry down the gang plank and
as he does two crewmen pull it up and prepare to depart.
Narcissus moves to the rail.  Servis joins him strapping.

				NARCISSUS
		Let me have your sword.

He puts his hand on the gold chest.

				NARCISSUS
		When you get to Ostia, use this --
		bribe passage to Africa or Spain.
		Save my family.  You should be able
		to find a merchant ship that will
		take you to Egypt then to Numidia.

				SELENE
		No!

Selene grabs Narcissus, unable to even think about losing
him again.

				SELENE
		You're not going!  You have to stay
		with us!

				NARCISSUS
		How long do you think Commodus will
		let us live once he's in power?  A
		month?  Half a year?  Paestum will
		be a prison where he'll hold us
		until it's time...

				SELENE
		Narcissus!

				NARCISSUS
		Do you want to see Themis and Manto
		butchered?  If I die fighting
		Commodus he won't care about you.
		If I live I'll come and get you.

				SELENE
		I don't want you to die!

Clinging to him she crumbles into tears.

				NARCISSUS
		I'll never die.  You tell the girls
		that.  You honor our ancestors and
		I'll be there.  Every night.  At the
		table of life.

				SELENE
		Your daughters need more than some
		vapors; they need you!

				NARCISSUS
		They'll have me.  Teach them.  Don't
		let them become like these ignorant
		heaps of citizens without history,
		without philosophy, without meaning.
		Teach them of the Greeks, the
		Babylonians, the Hebrews, the
		Numidians, the Egyptians and the
		great Romans.  Teach them, who we
		are!

				SELENE
		You teach them!

				NARCISSUS
		That's what I'm going to do.  That's
		what I'm going to do...

Servis unbuckles his sword and hands it over to Narcissus.
As the ship starts to move away from shore Narcissus
crosses to the far rail.

RAIL

Narcissus embraces Selene who is no-way ready to let him
go and Servis has to hold her back.  Carefully he lowers
himself over the side.

EXT.  ROME - EARLY MORNING

Narcissus, face muddied, moves carefully through the
narrow streets, trying to stay in the side alleys.
Vigilant Guards move through the main streets like Brown
Shirts -- they yank people into the street, lining them
up.

				VIGILANT LEADER
		Caesar has declared this his
		holiday!  Don't you want to be in
		the arena?  All of Rome will be
		there!

HILLSIDE

As Narcissus approaches Proximo's school he sees the great
wooden door have been smashed aside.

INT.  PROXIMO'S SCHOOL

Narcissus moves through smoke from a smoldering structure
and into the courtyard.  They're all here:  Dala, Adonis,
the others... as if they's gathered to make one last
stand.  All dead.  Many have been shot with arrows.

INT.  PROXIMO'S OFFICE

Proximo has died at his desk.  Every drawer is broken
into.  Narcissus lays a hand on his head.

				NARCISSUS
		Looks like they got your money after
		all, old friend.

Narcissus looks around the room, spots his Spatha Sword
and getting it he uncovers the top of a broken crate and
finds that Proximo had kept his MILITARY UNIFORM.
Narcissus puts his hands on his old lorica segmentata, the
decorations.

EXT.  YARD

Wearing a full length toga, Narcissus moves down the
hillside.  Behind him FLAMES engulf the school.

SIDE STREET

Narcissus comes on a half dozen dead legionnaire with red
'shoulders' -- they're from the Felix Division.  As he
moves slowly he hears marching feet and ducks into an
alley as Praetorian Guard pass.  Narcissus comes back into
the light -- then a HUGE CHEER -- like some distant
NATURAL FORCE -- echoes through the air...

INT.  COLOSSEUM - DAY

Something HUGE creeps into the arena from the depths of
the Colosseum, sun glinting off it's sides as it emerges
into the light... the audience GASPS.  It's an ENORMOUS
BRASS BULL dragged on wheels by slaves into the center of
the arena.

The bull 'stands' on all fours, head back, horns rising
from the skull like regular bull's horns but finish up as
GIANT TRUMPETS AIMED AT THE SKY.  The two sides of it's
'ribs' are open but BARS prevent anyone from getting out.
The belly of the bull is filled with SENATORS... and
Lucilla.

At first the mob is uneasy, but seeing these "high class
men" in this absurd machine brings out the laughs.

FALCO

pushes through the senators up to the bars on one side and
starts yelling for the crowd to listen to him... but the
crowd roars all the more.  Arena Slaves stack kindling and
logs underneath the brass bull.  Jerses stands.

				JERSES
		In the name of Caesar Marcus
		Aurelius Commodus Antoninus
		Augustus, the entire Senate has been
		found guilty of conspiracy against
		the emperor!

Again, a mixed response from the crowd.  Commodus jumps
up, throws off his robe revealing his imposing physique
and leaps onto the edge of the lowest wall on the arena.

				COMMODUS
		These Senators -- and my own sister
		-- have determined they should rule
		Rome!  The Empire!  They better than
		an emperor!  They better than
		Augustus Octavian!  Better than
		Trajan, Hadrian -- or even my divine
		father, Marcus Aurelius!  These
		names echo down to us throughout
		history!  Name one Senator!  One
		Senator whose name falls from the
		lips with the same power!  I defy
		you to name one!  And as for my
		sister -- shall we now have women
		running the greatest empire in the
		history of the world?!

That brings a loud outburst of "NO!" and a background of
laughter from the mob.

				COMMODUS
		Since Romans are accused of not
		spending enough time in the Senate,
		I have brought the whole Senate to
		the people!  Let's show them how
		real Romans treat treachery!  Light
		that fire!

The Slaves heave on a bucket of lampante -- highly
inflammable olive oil -- and another tosses in a torch.
Flames roar up around the bull.

INSIDE THE BULL

... like the end of the world.  Smoke whips through the
openings as SENATORS weep, lunge against the bars or walls
and scream.  Lucilla kneels, crying.  Falco crouches
beside her and they embrace.

ARENA

As the fire grows Arena Slaves close hinged panels over
the barred openings using poles.  Inside the screaming and
drumming of fists on hot metal reaches a crescendo.

COMMODUS

stands on his imperial seat watching the last great moment
in his final conquest of Rome.

THE BRASS BULL

shaking from the frenzy inside as its belly GLOWS.
SCREAMS rise to SHRIEKS and as do the shouts and howls of
delight from the crowd.

Finally the cries inside become the animal screeches of
PURE PAIN -- and that sound is so DEVASTATING that the mob
involuntarily goes quiet.  As the sound reaches a horrific
crescendo BLACK SMOKE SHOOTS OUT through the trumpets at
the top of the bull and THE TRUMPETS SOUND...

EXT.  STREETS OF ROME

Narcissus stops, hearing the horns and seeing the TWIN
PLUMES rising over the Colosseum.  Then the ANIMAL HOWL OF
THE MOB...

Narcissus continues through the narrow streets between the
high-rise 'insulae', housing the Roman underclass.
They're slums with garbage in heaps outside the buildings
rummaged by dogs.

He rounds a corner and comes across CHILDREN playing
GLADIATOR among the filth.  Three KIDS have made wooden
swords and a fourth the trident of the retiarius; he even
has a 'net' made from a cheap piece of cloth.  Narcissus
checks them out.  Then he turns back to the main street.

EXT.  COLOSSEUM - DAY

Narcissus stops yards away, sizing the situation up.
Cages of ANIMALS are delivered by a dozen MEN.  A ROAR
goes up from the arena.

INT.  COLOSSEUM ARENA

Carnage.  Dead gladiators and animals have been left on
the sand.  An orchestra of DRUMS resound.

				JERSES
		Friends and citizens, you are
		fortunate to live on the most
		glorious day in the history of Rome!
		The Fatherland's greatest enemies
		roam Hades, sent on that eternal
		mission by our beloved emperor, the
		demi-god Commodus!

INT.  COLOSSEUM PASSAGES

Narcissus sees there are plenty of armed guards at the
main entrance into the halls.  He turns right into a
narrow opening that becomes an internal aqueduct.  This he
climbs, then leaps down on top of a CAGE.  A LION inside
leaps up at him and he jumps to the top of the next cage
which holds a panther -- and another holding a POLAR BEAR.

Narcissus pauses to look down at the magnificent, pacing
white animal; clearly never seen anything like it in his
life.  Then another cage RISES up on an elevator blocking
his way.  Narcissus almost does a double-take... Inside
are CHIMPANZEES dressed as ROMAN SENATORS.  He leaps down
into a narrow passage.

ARENA

Jerses continues.

				JERSES
		To show his benevolence and his good
		standing with all the Gods, Emperor
		Commodus has negotiated a bargain
		with Hades himself!  The Senators so
		lately late of Rome are to be
		returned to us on condition they do
		so in a form which will vex us no
		more!

THE CAGE DOOR...

slides open and the Chimps rush out into the arena.  When
the audience sees them they crack-up.

				JERSES
		Go!  Scurry on!  Take your places in
		the Senate!  You have much work to
		do -- for this day the City of Rome
		is proclaimed renamed the City of
		Commodus!

The chimps exit, trumpets blow and Arena Slaves run out
onto the sand still strewn with dead animals and
gladiators.  As the crowd 'OOS' and 'AHS' they cover the
floor of the arena with GOLD DUST until the arena dead
seem SCULPTURED IN GOLD.

Drums roll and Commodus enters the arena.  He stands in
the golden arena and receives wave after wave of applause
from the crowd.

BUTCHER SHOP

As the FAT BUTCHER raises his huge cleaver a LIVING ARM
reaches out of the carnage and GRABS HIS THROAT.
Narcissus shoves a body aside and HEAVES the Fat Butcher
over the edge into the lion's cage -- his SCREAMS are
drowned out by the CHEERS from the arena.  Narcissus leaps
onto the floor; he heads down toward the main entrance
hall.

COMMODUS

faces a Thracian -- a man with a round shield and a curved
dagger.  Commodus easily chops the shield out of the
inexperienced man's hand, knocks the man over, straddles
him, holds a sword point over the man's heart.  He looks
up to the crowd.  The upscale seats jab their thumbs
against their chests... Commodus raises his sword...

				NARCISSUS
		I want you!

Commodus spins on his heels as the entire arena goes
SILENT.

NARCISSUS

stands on the arena floor.  He yanks off his cloak and the
crowd sees he's wearing his old GENERAL'S UNIFORM.  The
Thracian runs off...

				NARCISSUS
		I accuse you, Lucius Aelius Aurelius
		Commodus of betraying Rome; of
		betraying her courageous soldiers
		for the sake of personal gain!  I
		accuse you of murder:  of the
		Senators of Rome, of untold
		citizens, of your sister and of
		poisoning your own father, our
		beloved Marcus Aurelius!
				(Narcissus draws his
				sword)
		The punishment is death in the
		arena...

Commodus stares at this apparition.  He turns up toward
the Imperial box where Quintus is about to come to his
rescue when VOICES shout:

				CHEAP SEATS
		Let them fight!  Narcissus!
		Narcissus!

People in the upscale seats shout for Commodus.  And at
that moment Commodus holds up his hand stopping Quintus;
can tell by the look on his face he is sick of Narcissus
once again throwing his absolute ascendancy up for grabs.

When the audience sees he's going to fight a universal
cheer goes up.  But he holds up his hand and Quintus
tosses down his gilt bow and arrows.

NARCISSUS

moves toward Commodus, a gentle wind stirs his hair and
once again he's the noble Roman General -- all around is
the surreal gold dust coated nightmare of bodies in
hideous death poses, a golden 'Guernica'.

Narcissus goes straight for him as Commodus hurriedly
cocks an arrow... Just as Narcissus is nearly within sword
range Commodus hastily fires -- he hits Narcissus, but
rushed his aim and the arrow sinks into his left shoulder.

Narcissus staggers -- cheers and cries of dismay rise
together from the audience.  But Narcissus manages to
strike out splitting the bow... still it's plain he's
badly hit.  He staggers sideways.

Now Commodus is sure he's got him and holds his hand up
stopping Quintus who again moves to enter the arena.
Commodus draws his sword... Narcissus responds by BREAKING
OFF THE ARROW IN HIS SHOULDER and going right for
Commodus.

THE TWO BATTLE IN THE CENTER OF THE ARENA --

Wounded, Narcissus is slowly backed up.  The crowd is on
edge -- cheap seats solidly on Narcissus' side, their
enthusiasm unnerves Quintus.  He moves Praetorian Guard to
flank the seats of the rich.

NARCISSUS

is getting the worst of it, his shoulder bleeds through
his armor.  Commodus gets stronger, anticipating finally
killing his enemy with his own hands.  Commodus slams the
sword out of Narcissus' hand and Narcissus GOES DOWN...

Behind Commodus the crowd is going truly NUTS -- but he
just doesn't care:  he raises his sword to let the world
know he's about to strike the fatal blow when Narcissus
TACKLES him at the waist.

Commodus GOES DOWN -- sword flying away -- and Narcissus
is on him, the two roll in the gore and gold dust and
Narcissus gets Commodus on his back and starts strangling
him with his one good arm.

The cheap seats GO CRAZY -- Quintus struggles to pull
together a force to get into the arena but people rush
into the arena blocking the troops...

AND NARCISSUS --

crushing Commodus down into the golden sand of the
Colosseum.  He speaks with serenity and power.

				NARCISSUS
		God, Janus, for saving my family I
		sacrifice the emperor of Rome...

He crushes Commodus' throat with his bare hands.  Quintus
stands over him as the rest of the guard battles the
crowd.  Quintus raises his sword and slams it down...
beside Narcissus in the SAND.

EXT.  MERCHANT SHIP - OFF THE COAST OF AFRICA - DAY

Narcissus with Selene, his arms around Themis and Manto on
deck watching the coast approach.

				THE END


After Commodus' death the Praetorian Guard auctioned off
the position of Roman Emperor to the highest bidder.  In
response the Army of the Danube marched on Rome, killed
the new 'Emperor' and tried to establish a strong
government... but the empire slipped into civil war.

The Colosseum and its slaughter of animals and gladiators
continued -- even through two hundred years of Popes --
until German 'barbarians' toppled Rome and put an end to
the circus.



---



(1) "The typical Acta Diurna (Daily Acts) might contain
	news of gladiatorial contest, astrological omens,
	notable marriages, births and deaths, public
	appointments, and trials and executions.  Such reading
	matter complemented the usual fare of military news
	and plebiscite results also given in the Acta Diurna
	and presaged the future popularity of such newspaper
	fillers as horoscopes, the obituary column, and the
	sports pages."  It was started by Julius Caesar in 59
	BC.

					- Encyclopedia Britannica


(2) Borrowed from Fellini but may be an historical
	artifact.


(3) A satirical piece survives from the time of Pharaoh
	Akhenaton -- 1358 BC -- describing the wealthy young
	men of Thebes spending their "... patrimony upon a
	fast chariot and a span of mettlesome horses tearing
	around and showing off their prowess."  Light, high-
	priced chariots were the Ferrari of their day.

					- Akhenaten, C. Aldred




