





















                         HOT ZONE


                Screen story & screenplay by

                        Jim V. Hart


             Based on "Crisis in the Hot Zone"

                    by Richard Preston





















                                           October 9, 1993







          "You might call AIDS the revenge of
           the rain forest..."

                               Richard Preston



          "These diseases are true emergers.
           Humans have truly stumbled into
           these occult agents."

                               Dr. Karl Johnson



          "We've got company!"

                               Han Solo






BLACKSCREEN:

LEGEND:   IN 1976, OUTBREAKS OF LETHAL HEMORRHAGIC
          FEVER CAUSED BY THE DEADLY EBOLA VIRUS
          OCCURRED AMONG HUMANS IN ZAIRE, AFRICA.
          318 CASES RESULTED IN 290 DEATHS --

                     91%  FATALITIES

          A SIMULTANEOUS OUTBREAK IN SUDAN, 800 KM
          THROUGH THE JUNGLE REPORTED 250 CASES
          RESULTING IN 150 DEATHS --

                     53%  FATALITIES

          EBOLA IS CALLED A "SLATE WIPER" FOR HUMANS.
          THERE IS NO KNOWN CURE.  ONCE INFECTED,
          THE VIRUS KILLS ITS HOST IN 7 DAYS...

          FIRST COME THE HEADACHES...






BLACKSCREEN:  PRESENTATION TITLES

FADE IN:

AERIAL POV - LANDSCAPE - LIVING ORGANISM

Rivers, teeming with microscopic life thread like
spaghetti through a geography of living cells.  Invaders.
Territory is overrun.  The view is like an aerial recon
photo of an alien land -- at war.

SUPER:    CATEGORY   -  FILOVIRUS
          STRAIN     -  EBOLA ZAIRE (Z)
          FATALITY   -  88% KILL RATIO
          SURVIVORS  -  12% IMMUNE ANTIBODY
          CURE NONE  -  NONE

                                        MATCH DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  AERIAL POV - LANDSCAPE - AFRICAN TERRAIN - DAWN

Rivers, gleaming in the sun, thread like spaghetti through
a geography of jungle terrain, perfectly matching the
patterns of the virus landscape.

SUPER: ZAIRE, AFRICA - EBOLA RIVER REGION - SEPT. - 1976

A Fokker light air transport descends into view.

THE JUNGLE - LOOKING UP - CONTINUING ACTION

As the transport busses overhead, AFRICAN GREEN MONKEYS,
hundreds of them, frolic and chatter in the trees.

A BIG MALE watches inquisitive.  The plane's SHADOW passes
over him.  The Male opens its mouth frighteningly wide; a
"threat display."  Four HUGE FANGS flash at the intruder.

FLYING POV - CONTINUING ACTION

Twenty five feet above the Ebola River.


EXT.  REMOTE AIRSTRIP - AT THE RIVER'S EDGE - DAWN

The Transport touches down and stops on the empty field.

THE TRANSPORT - CARGO DOORS OPEN

A Land Rover emerges.  Then another.  "WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION" emblems on the side panels.  We see a SIX
PERSON MULTINATIONAL EPIDEMIC TEAM inside.

Hermetically sealed hospital isolator stretchers with its
own air supply sticks out the back of each.  A casualty
inside can't infect the world outside.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  CARGO HOLD - POV THROUGH DOORS

We see the Rovers speeding into the bush.  Cargo doors
close.  Engines rev.

OUTSIDE - THE TRANSPORT TAXIS

Picking up speed.

HIGH ANGLE - THE TREETOPS - CONTINUING ACTION

The plane BARELY CLEARS the trees sending Green Monkeys
scattering in all directions.  Their angry cries echo;
"KRA KRA KRA!!!"

END MAIN TITLES

                                            CUT TO:

A GREEN MONKEY - ROASTING ON A STICK

THE VIEW SHIFTS TO REVEAL:


EXT.  EBOLA RIVER - FERRY CROSSING - MORNING

A handful of ZAIREAN POLICE guard the primitive landing.

REFUGEE VILLAGERS camp along the banks in the b.g.

One POLICEMAN passes out half-cooked monkey.

The POLICE CAPTAIN chews on a bloody haunch, licking his
fingers.  The Ferry Bell RINGS O.S.

Now a jeep HORN HONKS O.S. approaching --

THEIR POV - THE EBOLA RIVER

The primitive Ferry parts the mist.  Four wooden canoes
held together by a plank deck.  FERRYMEN buck the current
with long poles.

KARL JOHNSON EMERGES from the mist.  He stands on the hood
of the lead Rover WEARING A FULL FACE RESPIRATOR.  A
creature from another planet.

WITH THE FERRY - APPROACHING

CHUCK REESE (22) honks at the wheel.  He wears a full
respirator.  All the team members wear respirators.

                         REESE
                  (in French)
          Do not shoot.  Do not shoot.
          American Doctor!  Doctor!

JOHNSON - CLOSER

He raises his respirator staring right into the guns -- At
30, he's already a legendary field virologist.

He surveys the scene like a military general as the Ferry
lands.

                         JOHNSON
                  (in French)
          Johnson.  Center for Disease Control.
          U.S.A. -- We're headed to the
          Yambuku Mission.

He points to his armband; CDC shield -- U.S. flag.

Police respond yelling threats at the frightened Ferrymen
and banging their weapons on the Rovers.

REESE - INSIDE THE ROVER

He is about to soil his trousers.  The two Norwegian Team
members whisper in their language.

                         REESE
          Jesus Christ, these people should be
          quarantined.  This outbreak is outta
          control --

THEIR POV - THE FRIGHTENED VILLAGERS

Meager belongings, hungry children, terrified.

TO JOHNSON

                         JOHNSON
                  (in French)
          How far to Yambuku?

Silence.  The Police Captain approaches menacingly.

                         CAPTAIN
                  (in French)
          You don't want to go there, Doctor.
          There is nothing but death there.
          People are dying all along the
          river --

SISTER GENEVIEVE, a Belgian Catholic Nurse, approaches
from the Refugee camp.  40's, haggard, suffering
dehydration.  She pushes past the Police, unafraid.

                         SISTER GENEVIEVE
                  (in French)
          Etes-vous Doctor Johnson?
                  (in English)
          -- I am Sister Genevieve from the
          Yambuku Mission --

Johnson offers a bottle of Perrier -- Sister chugs it.

                         SISTER GENEVIEVE
          Bless you, Doctor --

                         JOHNSON
          Save the blessings, Sister --

He signals to Reese.

                         JOHNSON
          Reese, get the Sister some salt
          tablets and a shot of B12.  She's
          dehydrating.

Petrified, Reese breaks out the medical kit from the
Rover.  A Policeman tracks his every move at gunpoint.

He is so nervous he fumbles the salt tablets and vitamins
dropping them.  Sister politely pushes the guns aside and
helps him pick them up.

Johnson watches her.  He's impressed by her courage.

                         JOHNSON
          Tell our hosts I need blood samples
          -- Sister, tissue samples -- before
          this bug burns itself out.  I have
          to get to Yambuku.  If I can find
          one survivor, then We, not God, can
          maybe cure this thing.

The Captain separates them.  He sticks his gun in
Johnson's crotch.  He understands English perfectly --

                         CAPTAIN
                  (in English)
          Do not be coming back this way,
          Doctor.  Quarantine --
                  (pointing to the
                   jungle)
          We will shoot you if you try.

Johnson tosses packs of cigarettes to the Police defiantly
and climbs back in the Rover.

THE ROVER - REESE CLIMBS IN

                         REESE
          You are certifiable, Dr. --

Suddenly, Sister Genevieve straightens her habit and jumps
in.

                         SISTER GENEVIEVE
          I shall guide you to Yambuku,
          Doctor.

Johnson starts to protest.  He sees her conviction.

                         JOHNSON
          Bless You, Sister.

THE VIEW CLIMBS as the Rover speeds off the landing and
disappears into the bush.

                                            CUT TO:

TIGHT ON - OLD BANTU ELDER

Sitting vigil crouched outside a hut.  Eyes fixed --
unwavering.  WE HEAR:  Horrible sounds of suffering
inside.

THE VIEW SHIFTS TO REVEAL:


EXT.  BANTU VILLAGE - DAY

Huts burn and smolder.  Termite ant hills tower over some
of the remains.  A handful of BANTU watch the old Elder.
The Women wails a death chant.

A HAND reaches out the doorway to bowls of food and water.
Suddenly, it clenches in agony.  Blood hemorrhages through
pulpy skin.  The hand flops to the dirt.

The Elder rises in silence.  Torch in hand, he chants a
prayer and torches the hut.

A BANTU WOMAN screams rushing towards her flaming home.
OTHER WOMEN pull her back.

The Elder picks up his medicine bundle and leads the
survivors of his Village into the Bush.

                               FLAMES OBSCURE THE VIEW TO:

THE ROVERS - MOVING THROUGH VILLAGE - LATER

Johnson signals to go slower.  Reese is riveted to his
window.  Burned devastation everywhere.  Sister prays.

THEIR POV - CHARRED BODIES

Smoldering in the ruins.  Reese is sickened.

                         REESE
          My God, what happened here?

                         JOHNSON
          The Bantu.  They've gone back to
          their ancient ways of dealing with
          plague and malaria.  You put the
          sick person in a hut.  You put food
          and water in the door.  If the
          person walks out one day -- or
          crawls out, that's fine.  If they
          don't... you burn the hut... No more
          disease --

FOLLOW THE SECOND ROVER - CONTINUING ACTION

Two Team Members crank photographs.


EXT.  A HUT - CONSUMED IN FLAMES

The Rovers stop nearby.  Sister Genevieve, exhausted,
rests her head on the seat.

Johnson climbs out surveying the sight.  This is his war.

                         JOHNSON
          This whole zone is hot.  Reese.

He kicks at the hut's burning embers.

                         JOHNSON
          Whatever this bug is, Ebola is not a
          place we're gonna forget anytime
          soon --

He turns to:  REESE, who is frantically removing his gear
from the lead Rover.  He shoots Karl a frightened glance.

                         REESE
          I'm not going upcountry, Doc.  I'm
          taking my team out -- We'll base at
          the hospital in Kinshasa --

Reese passes Johnson heading for the other Rover.  The
Team reacts confused as he plops his gear inside.

                         JOHNSON
          You're a good doctor.  They need
          your services too.  Couple of things
          you might consider --

Reese doesn't want to hear it.

                         JOHNSON
          Maybe we've already been exposed.

As Karl speaks, he ties off his own arm, thumps a vein and
draws his own blood.

                         JOHNSON
          Test all our blood when you get
          back.  Take some samples from Sister
          Genevieve:  here too --

SISTER'S POV - INSIDE ROVER

Sweat beads on her forehead under her habit.  Her vision
BLURS for a millisecond then corrects itself.  She watches
Johnson confront Reese without ever raising his voice.

                         JOHNSON
          Maybe this bug can spread through
          the air.  Maybe it's the Andromeda
          Strain --

Johnson tosses the blood vial --

TO REESE

He stares at the blood vial like death itself.

ON JOHNSON - FRAMED BY THE DECIMATION

                         JOHNSON
          If it is Andromeda, then you won't
          be safe anywhere in the world.

The Team audibly reacts in French and Norwegian.  Winds
kick up smoke swirling around Johnson.

                         JOHNSON
          You might as well be here at the
          epicenter trying to stop it.

                                 SMOKE WIPES THE FRAME TO:

EXT.  YAMBUKU ROAD - HIGH ANGLE - LOOKING DOWN - LATER

The lone Rover travels slowly along the rough road.  In
the f.g., GREEN MONKEYS FOLLOW, jumping from limb to
branch, escorting Johnson deeper into the jungle.

                         SISTER GENEVIEVE (V.O.)
          The infection hit the hospital like
          a -- like a bomb --

THE ROVER - INSIDE

                         JOHNSON
          Who was the index case?  The first
          patient to "show"?

                         SISTER GENEVIEVE
          A Schoolteacher.  We treated him for
          malaria -- Two days later, he died
          -- horribly.  Every child at the
          school came to the hospital.
          Families -- pregnant women.  All
          broke with fever.

Johnson traces the spread in his mind, sorting, seeking --

                         JOHNSON
          But where did the teacher get the
          bug?  Rodent bites? -- Feces?
          Mosquitoes?  Monkeys maybe?

Sister Genevieve shakes her head bewildered.  Who knows?

                         JOHNSON
          How did it spread so quickly?  What
          did you give the patients?

                         SISTER GENEVIEVE
          Injections.  Chloroquine and
          vitamins.  These people do not
          believe they have been "doctored"
          unless we give them a shot...

She hesitates, almost confessing.

                         SISTER GENEVIEVE
          We only used five syringes a day to
          treat everyone --

                         JOHNSON
                  (grim diagnosis)
          Then the infection could've been
          passed through the needles --

                         SISTER GENEVIEVE
          God forgive us... Some became
          irrational -- hostile -- and
          escaped!  Hundreds became violently
          ill and died in one week --

Silence.  Johnson realizes he's facing nature's revenge.

                         JOHNSON
          Seven days.  No time for an "immune
          response."  By the time the
          patient's immune system throws
          antibodies to fight the damn thing
          -- it's too late...

She breaks down, sobbing.  Johnson stops the Rover.

                         JOHNSON
          You did what you could, Sister.

He takes her hands in his, firmly but gently.  He's
wearing surgical gloves.

THEIR POV - THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD

The Yambuku Mission.  An imposing old chapel and a ring of
cinderblock buildings.  The Belgian flag hangs at half-
mast in the center.  No life anywhere --

Suddenly, a FOUR FOOT TALL MALE GREEN MONKEY drops on the
hood from the trees with full force -- screeching at them.

Sister screams with fright.  Johnson jumps so much he
bumps his head on the ceiling.

OUTSIDE - GREEN MONKEYS

Swarm the Rover on a food search, screeching "KRA, KRA."

INSIDE - CONTINUING ACTION

One Monkey lands on the door latch.  It's weight pulls the
Sister's door open.  She cries out.

JOHNSON FALLS across her closing it tight.

OUTSIDE - THE BIG MALE

Flashes his fangs and hurls his feces, splattering against
the windshield.  Then he is gone.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  HOSPITAL COMPOUND - DAY - GLIDING VIEWS

Open air porches are lined with empty beds.  Silence.
Only the chattering of the monkeys in the trees.

JOHNSON - APPROACHING FROM THE ROVER

He now wears a Tyvek protective suit, boots and full face
respirator.  He carries a field kit and a small ice chest.

HIS POV - THE HOSPITAL

Flies buzz swarming out the windows and doors.


INT.  HOSPITAL - CONTINUING ACTION

Johnson opens the door.  Light spills in.  Flies swarm.
Their buzzing sounds like chainsaws.

HIS POV - THE WARD

A silhouette of tangled bodies.  The mud walls are
splattered with blood -- as if a bomb did go off.

                         JOHNSON
          Don't come in here, Sister.

OUTSIDE - SISTER GENEVIEVE

Sinks slowly to her knees, frozen like a statue, praying.

RESUME:  HOSPITAL - FOLLOW JOHNSON

Down the rows of 120 beds, inspecting the few remaining
bodies, each with evidence of massive hemorrhaging from
every orifice.

JOHNSON - CLOSER

He stops at one bed, carefully checking a YOUNG MAN for
signs of life.  He feels for a pulse --

His glove fingers sink into the man's flesh like pudding.
Johnson reels back -- reviled.  His breath labored.

TIGHT ON - JOHNSON'S GLOVED HAND

Taking a nose swab blood sample.  Another swab inside the
Man's mouth -- and ears.  With tweezers, he pinches out
samples of skin tissues.

WE FOLLOW bloody swaps and skin tissues into plastic
vials.  Johnson tags and places each in the ice chest.

IN THE ICE CHEST - TIGHT ON THE TAG

Numbers:  001, etc., then, "Yambuku blood and epidermal
tissue slices - Ebola, Zaire."


EXT.  HOSPITAL - SUNDOWN

Johnson exits, exhausted, solemn.  Sister Genevieve is
still bent in prayer, motionless; wearing her respirator.

                         JOHNSON
          No survivors.  I've never seen a bug
          kill like this one, Sister.

Fried by his experience, he surveys the jungle.  Surreal
in the golden light.  He's completely spaced.

                         JOHNSON
          There must be members of some lost
          tribe out there who've built up
          immunities to this killer over the
          years -- Their blood could have
          powerful antibodies passed down
          through the generations... strong
          enough to save some lives --
                  (silence, he reaches
                   her)
          Sister --

HIS POV - SISTER GENEVIEVE

Slowly raises her bowed head.  Blood oozes from her
respirator.  Her faceplate is splattered with it.

She collapses before he can catch her.  Johnson cradles
her removing the respirator.  He's horrified.

                         JOHNSON
          You spiked the damn fever -- We'll
          get you to Kinshasa.

Blood traces from her tearducts -- her nose and ears.

                         JOHNSON
          Oh my god -- hold on -- hold on --

He pulls a syringe from his pocket -- thumps up a vein and
begins to shoot her full of antibiotics.  She reflexes
away from the needle -- internal hemorrhages rock her --

Johnson jerks back.  The SYRINGE PIERCES the glove on his
left hand.  He stares at it in horror.  He yanks it out
sucking his hand and spitting -- like a snake bite.

                         SISTER GENEVIEVE
          First... come... the... headaches --

She spasms suddenly -- coughing up black fluid --

THE VIEW ROCKETS UP UP INTO THE TREES --

Monkeys cry everywhere.  "KRA!  KRA!"  We rocket right
into the face of the BIG GREEN MALE.  Deep brown cloudy
eyes staring at us transfixed.  Blood -- building in a
crimson wave -- emerges from it's nose.

                                            CUT TO BLACK.

FADE IN:

EXT.  COUNTRY ROAD - MORNING

A modest colonial sits atop a hill at the foot of the
Appalachians.  Leaves glow in bright autumn colors.

SUPER:  FREDERICK, MD - WED., OCT. 4, 1989 0800 HRS.

                         JAXX (V.O.)
          Jason -- you'll be late for school.


INT.  JAXX KITCHEN - CONTINUING ACTION

THE FREEZER DOOR CLOSES REVEALING:  COL. NANCY JAXX; a
rather beautiful woman in her mid 30's.  "Supermom" and
"ultrawife" in Army uniform with Colonel's bars taking her
usual stab at breakfast; throwing 4 waffles in the
microwave -- cracking two eggs in a skillet -- She opens a
cabinet, gets mugs, dumps in instant coffee -- suddenly --

A MONKEY LIKE CREATURE HANGS DOWN RIGHT IN HER FACE --

                         JAXX
                  (pushes it away,
                   annoyed)
          Jason!  Come feed Gumby or he's
          going in your omelette!

No response.  The Kinkajoo wraps its prehensile tail
around her neck.


INT.  MENAGERIE ROOM - MORNING

Jaxx piggybacks the Kinkajoo and a cup of coffee through
the converted sunporch.  It's filled with ANIMALS.

FOLLOW JAXX BY THE ANIMALS

Two fish tanks, a fish pond, exotic Parrots, Bright Red
Eclectus, Cockatoos -- and four Yellow naped Amazons.  One
sings an opera aria.  One wolf whistles as Jaxx passes.

                         JAXX
                  (ritual)
          Thanks boys.  Eat your heart out
          girls --

She steps over an old bulldog in the doorway.  The dog,
MAGGIE, flatulates in her sleep.  Jaxx fans the air.

                         JAXX
          Oh -- Maggie -- please --

A loose scarlet Parrot walking behind Jaxx pecks Maggie's
stumpy tail instantly rousing the old dog to a barking
frenzy.  The Aviary adds squawks and screeches.

JAXX'S POV - JASON'S BASEMENT BEDROOM

She opens the door on her 13 year old son, JASON; his
lanky frame all over the bed, sleeping with his Walkman.

                         JAXX
          Jason?  Wakey wakey --

She tosses the Kinkajoo through the air and closes the
door, blocking the view.  WE HEAR:  Jason yell.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  HOUSE - REARVIEW - CONTINUING ACTION

Jaxx heads for the converted garage passing a red Toyota
pickup parked in the drive.  The magnetic sign on the door
panel reads:  "JAXX VETERINARY CLINIC."


INT.  GARAGE VET CLINIC - CONTINUING ACTION

As Jaxx enters, BLACKHAWK, their big black hunting Bouvier
bounds over to greet her.

6'3" GERRY JAXX is dipping his "boarders" in a tickbath.
His haircut still military sharp.  Now a civilian, his
years in the army reflect in his physical fitness.

                         JAXX
          Ready for your fix -- ?

Nancy offers him a cup of coffee --

                         GERRY
          Ah, Nance.  The life of a country
          veterinarian is sheer bliss.

He's lying.  His hands are elbow deep in doggie-bath.

                         NANCY
          Aw -- You miss the Army that much?
          Why not Re-enlist?

                         GERRY
          Never.  Then I would have to call
          you, "Colonel" --

He embraces her caressing her buns.  She caresses his
back.  Somebody clears their throat O.S.

AT THE GLASS SLIDING DOOR

Their daughter -- Twelve year old JAMIE -- bounces in her
sweat clothes.  She wears braces and never stops.  Never.

                         JAMIE
                  (through glass doors)
          There are children present.  I mean
          -- "Hello"?

TO MOM AND DAD

Breaking their clinch, "caught."

                         GERRY
          Morning, Princess.

                         JAXX
          Go eat your breakfast -- or we'll be
          late for school --

OUTSIDE - JAMIE

She makes a face; a complete rebel.

                         JAMIE
          In a minute -- watch me!

She poises by a tree, as if beginning a floor exercise.
Suddenly, the Kinkajoo leaps from a low branch landing on
Jamie's head.  She jumps with a shriek.

MOM AND DAD react, laughing.  Nothing dangerous here.

JAMIE - CLOSER

The Kinkajoo clings to her hair.

                         JAMIE
          C'mon, Gumby.  Let's show'em.

She sets the creature down beside her, preps and throws a
standing back flip with an Olympic finish.

The Kinkajoo does a flip too.

INSIDE CLINIC - THE JAXX'S

Gerry applauds.  Jaxx indicates "time for school."  JASON
wanders in, zombied.  He holds up seared waffles.

                         JASON
          Breakfast is burned... again.

Jamie walks in on her hands.

                         JAMIE
          Still eating with your hands,
          butthead?

                         JASON
          Can she talk to me that way, Mom?

                         JAXX
          Let's try not to kill each other
          before Thanksgiving, okay?

                         JASON
          After Thanksgiving, she's toast.
                  (Jamie swats him)
          Mom, I need money for lunch --

                         JAMIE
          I got a meet Friday, Mom.  You're
          coming aren't cha -- ?

Before Jaxx can answer, Jamie literally throws aerials out
of the clinic.

                         GERRY
          Please -- no acrobatics in the --

Jamie pays no attention.  Gerry looks at Jaxx dismayed.

                         GERRY
          She gets her stubbornness from you,
          Mrs. Jaxx.

                         JAXX
          I think you mean independence.
          She's your daughter --

Jaxx exits by a starving Jason.  Blackhawk jumps up
snatching the burned waffle from his hand.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  DAY CARE CENTER - REARVIEW - RESTON, VA. - MORNING

CHILDREN play in a sandbox.  A LITTLE BOY spoons up some
sand and eats it.  Yukk.  He spites it all over the GIRL
next to him.  Two more KIDS drink juice from the same cup.

IN THE F.G. - A CRATE IS CARRIED INTO VIEW

In red letters:  "PACIFIC PRIMATES - MANILA, PHILIPPINES."
Green Monkeys peer out from partition openings at the
children.  Sniffing.  A new scent in this new land.  Some
monkeys flash their fangs.  Others chatter.

                                            CUT TO:

MONKEY POV - THE KIDS

Kids stare back at the monkeys with giggles and delight.

The WOMEN SUPERVISOR pulls two FIGHTING CHILDREN apart.
The GIRL bites the BOY on the hand -- drawing blood.


EXT.  MONKEY HOUSE - CONTINUING ACTION

An alley separates the Day Care Center from a windowless
building.  MONKEY HANDLERS unload crates from a truck.
The logo on the cargo doors read:  SYNERGY RESEARCH LABS.

The handlers carry the Monkey crates into the rear of the
building.  TINY WHIPPERT, the strawboss, wears overalls,
plaid hunting shirt, ball cap, pony tail, a deer skinning
knife and weighs about 350.

DEKE, a biker type and LOC, a Vietnamese who speaks no
English, help Tiny transfer the monkey crates from the
truck one at a time.  They wear no masks -- just gloves.
All are expert monkey handlers.

                         TINY
          I love the part when Bruce Willis
          grins like he just got a little you
          know.  He hits that detonator and
          yells "adios mother fuckaouch!"

He dumps his end of the crate wringing his hand in pain.

                         TINY
          Ow -- little cocksucker bit the shit
          -- outta me --

                         DEKE
          You're probably the little shit's
          first meal since it left Africa.

Tiny shucks his glove and sucks his bloody finger.

                         DEKE
          Got two hundred more to go, Tiny.
          You need more fingers.

Tiny shoots him the "bloody" finger.

CRANE UP TO:  A STRIP MALL, BURGER KING, DAY CARE CENTER,
HOMES.  The Monkey house is right in the middle of
suburbia.  Twenty-five miles from Washington D.C.

SUPER:  SYNERGY RESEARCH LABS - ANIMAL QUARANTINE UNIT,
        RESTON VIRGINIA - WED., OCT. 4, 1989 0800 HRS.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  FT. DETRICK, MD - AERIAL VIEW - DAY

The base spreads at the eastern slope of the Appalachian
Mountains.  WE PASS OVER by an array of 90 foot radio
dishes.  This is a major defense communications center.

SUPER:  FT. DETRICK, MD - NOV. 16, 0900 HRS.

WE DESCEND TO:  A THREE STORY CONCRETE BUNKER BUILDING

Vent stacks on the roof aim up at us like deck guns.

THE BUILDING - GROUND LEVEL - HOLD ON A SIGN:

                      U.S.A.M.R.I.I.D.
            UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL RESEARCH
             INSTITUTE OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES

Insiders call it "RIID" for short.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  USAMRIID BLDG. - REAR ENTRANCE SECURITY STATION

TIGHT ON USAMRIID SHIELD:  Twin serpents entwine around a
flaming sword.  The slogan; "Research for the Soldier."

TILT DOWN TO:  A SECURITY MONITOR

Jaxx enters waving to the camera.

WIDEN TO:  A SECURITY GUARD sits vigil over a bank of
monitors with exterior views of the entire facility;
containment labs, corridors, monkey cages...

ON ONE MONITOR

A figure in a shiny space suit peers into a microscope.


INT.  CORRIDOR MAZE - CONTINUING ACTION

We follow Jaxx through the institutional halls.  At closed
double doors, she uses her security card on a necklace
from inside her uniform blouse and swipes it across a
black magnetic sensor on the wall.

INSERT:  SECURITY MONITOR - BUILDING ENTRANCE

DISPLAY:  JAXX, NANCY DEAN; VIROLOGY BL4.  ACCESS O.K.

RESUME:  CORRIDOR

Doors spring open.  Jaxx enters.  A sign overhead reads:

          INFECTIOUS AREA - AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  USAMRIID PRIMATE HOUSE - CONTINUING ACTION

Jaxx passes by individual containment rooms with several
species of Monkeys in cages.  The place is spotless.  Easy
listening ROCK MUSIC plays over the PA.

AT A WINDOW PARTITION - CONTINUING ACTION

Jaxx stops to watch two young WOMEN; PFC, GODWIN (17) and
SGT. KLAGES (18) wearing masks, Plexiglas visors and
gloves as they vaccinate a big African Green Monkey.

INSIDE LAV ROOM - CONTINUING ACTION

Jaxx enters wearing a visor mask, visor and gloves.
Godwin is singing softly to the monkey.

                         KLAGES
          Colonel, Jaxx --

                         JAXX
                  (putting them at
                   ease)
          Good morning, Ladies -- How's "Super
          Monk."

                         KLAGES
          Super Monk is immune to Simian
          Hemorrhagic and he just threw off
          another heavy Lassa fever challenge.
          Strong antibody response.  He's the
          healthiest primate in captivity.

Super Monk scarfs down monkey biscuits, ravenous.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  JAXX'S OFFICE - USAMRIID - DAY

A MOUSE CAGE; made of popsicle sticks.  Inside are three
white mice made of pipecleaners.  Each wears a tinfoil gas
mask.  A fading card on the side in a child's hand reads:

          "BE NICE TO MICE, K MOMMY - LOVE JAMIE"

A family photo sits on the cluttered desk next to it.
Jaxx poses with Jamie holding a Gymnastics trophy.

The phone RINGS... Again... Again.  JAXX HURRIES by the
glass partition, enters and answers.

                         JAXX
          Jaxx --

INTERCUT: INTERIOR MONKEY HOUSE TREATING ROOM - DAY

The Fifty-year old Man on the phone looks worried.

                         GIRARD
                  (on phone)
          Stan Girard -- remember?  Synergy,
          right.  I'm chief research Vet.
          We've got a little problem at one of
          our quarantine units not too far
          from you --

TO JAXX - USAMRIID

                         JAXX
                  (on phone, taking
                   notes)
          Five hundred Greens and Macaques --
          shipped from Philippines six weeks
          ago -- Simian Hemorrhagic fever?

TO GIRARD - MONKEY HOUSE

He examines a dissected monkey on a "bleed table" with
gloves, his mask down around his neck.

                         GIRARD
                  (on phone)
          Necropsies on the fatalities show
          enlarged spleens -- some
          petechiae --

TO JAXX - USAMRIID

                         JAXX
                  (on phone)
          Classic symptoms for SHF.  What's
          the body count?
                  (a pause, eerie
                   feeling)
          Seventy in the last week?

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  MONKEY HOUSE - ROOM F

Narrow.  Windowless.  Lined with 100 wall mounted
stainless steel cages.  Live monkeys stare listless.
Ghost-like.

ON A CAGE - DEKE OPENS THE DOOR

A Monkey tumbles into his net.  Dead.

TO TINY:  hosing down the blood on the floor kicking up an
aerosol mist.

                         GIRARD (V.O.) (PHONE)
          We lost twenty-seven more this
          morning.  So far just one room is
          infected --

FOLLOW THE MIST:  Swirling up past monkey cages to
ventilators in the ceiling --

TO THE TREATMENT ROOM - CONTINUING ACTION

The fine mist rolls from a ceiling vent DOWN TO:  GIRARD

                         GIRARD
                  (on phone)
          But, well, Management doesn't want
          to lose the whole population --
          We've got over a quarter million
          dollars in these monkeys --


INT.  JAXX'S OFFICE - SAME TIME

                         JAXX
                  (on phone)
          I'd keep that room isolated.  We
          know SHF isn't lethal to people,
          just monkeys -- Make sure your
          handlers use normal contagion
          precautions.  Yeah, get some "B&T"
          samples up to us today we'll get on
          it.  Right --

She hangs up tentatively, then hurries out.  PUSH IN ON:
The pipecleaner mice wearing gas masks.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

MICROSCOPIC VIEW - MONKEY TISSUE

A carpet of living cells takes on a spider web look.

                         JAXX (O.S.)
          Liver cells.  Monkey sample #053 --
          What do you think?


INT.  HOT SUITE (BL3) - NIGHT - CONTINUING ACTION

Jaxx adjusts the view wearing gloves and surgical masks
for Biosafety Level 3 lab.

PETER JAHRLING turns the glass flask containing the cell
culture under the microscope.  Late 30's, garrulous, black
heavy glasses; the quintessential lab scientist.

                         PETER
          Looks like Simian to me.  The
          infected cells have a definite
          spider web look.

He studies the magnified image on a video monitor attached
to the microscope.

                         PETER
          What's another bug in this house
          anyway -- ?

He points through a glass partition to two industrial
sized refrigerators, both with computer locks.  The RED
TREFOIL symbol for "biological hazard" marks the doors
like skull and crossbones.

                         PETER
          We got enough BL4 viruses and
          bacteria in there to make AIDS look
          like a runny nose.

                         JAXX
          Hey, there's a happy thought.  I try
          not to think about it.
                  (checking scope
                   again)
          Let's be sure about this bug.  Run
          some antigens --

THE LAB BENCH - CLOSER - PLASTIC VIALS

Jaxx removes one labeled "ANTIBODY SERUM - SIMIAN HF."
She draws a drop of the liquid in a pipette -- then
inserts it into the flask.

Peter flicks on the ultraviolet scope light.

                         PETER
          Go for the gold.

VIDEO MICROSCOPE VIEW - MONKEY TISSUE

Cells glow in the ultraviolet.  Suddenly, the dark antigen
solution clouds the view.  Antibodies surround infected
cells glowing bright fluorescent golden orange.

Jaxx studies the scope as Peter refers to a chart.

THE CHART - CLOSER - "FLUORESCENT ANTIGEN COLOR CHART"

He scans down bar graphs of fluorescent colors to a GOLDEN
ORANGE BAR labeled:  "Simian Hemorrhagic Fever."

                         PETER
          Bingo.  Positive for SHF.  Good news
          for us -- bad news for the monkeys.

Jaxx peers into the microscope.

                         JAXX
          Hey -- there's something flaky going
          on in this flask --

MICROSCOPE VIEW - MONKEY TISSUE            MAJOR MUSIC CUE

Blackholes grow in the carpet of glowing cells as if eaten
by moths.  Dead and dying cells float away --

TO JAXX AND PETER

                         JAXX
          That's not like any SHF I've ever
          seen.  Something is blowing those
          cells away.  They're off the
          plastic.

She doesn't like it.  She pulls Peter to the scope.

                         PETER
          Aw, just some crud in the scope.
          Pseudomonas bacterium maybe.  Really
          annoying.  Wipes out everything.
          You have to start over.  The little
          suckers smell like Welches grape
          juice --

He takes the flask, opens it and sniffs it --

                         JAXX
          Yeah and a virus kills with no odor
          -- So what've you got?

Peter continues to sniff.  A look of consternation.  He
suddenly caps it, getting the creeps.

                         PETER
          Nothing... No... smell.

                         JAXX
          Okay, okay -- so we've got an
          "unknown" here, Pete --

Jaxx flares concern.  They both stare at the flask.

                         JAXX
          Let's do it by the numbers.  How
          long will it take you to culture
          another isolate and get it on the
          big scope so we can see what the
          damn thing is?

                         PETER
                  (starts to sweat)
          I'll need more monkey samples.  Ten,
          twelve hours maybe.  First thing in
          the A.M.

                         JAXX
                  (heading for door)
          Call your wife.  Tell her we're
          shacking up together.  I'm going to
          pump C.J. to get us some of those
          monkeys --

                         PETER
          You know -- Karl Johnson could tell
          just by looking if this crud was
          Lassa, Marburg, Ebola, Anthrax --

Peter sets the flask down gingerly.  Jaxx lingers.

                         JAXX
          I was a green recruit my first year
          here at RIID when Johnson "retired."
          I don't think he ever even knew who
          I was.  How come you mention his
          name around here, everyone crawls in
          a hole?

                         PETER
                  (matter of fact)
          Karl thinks the world's got a gun to
          its head and there's not a damn
          thing anyone can do to keep us from
          pulling the trigger.
                  (a beat of respect)
          That scares people in high places...
          He's the best bug man there is.  Why
          don't you ask him?

Jaxx flusters.

                         JAXX
          Yeah, well, okay -- but he's not
          here -- We are.

Jaxx exits slamming the door.  The warning sign reads:

          BIOSAFETY LEVEL 3 - CONTAINMENT

TO PETE

He ponders the flask for a moment.  He pulls on his
surgical mask, pours the milky fluid from it into a
test tube, places the tube in a centrifuge and turns it
on.

CLOSER - THE CENTRIFUGE

Whirls to a blur.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

A PHOTO OF KARL JOHNSON

Staring right at us outside the Yambuku Mission.  1976.
His Field Team and 2 Nuns flank him.  One of them is
Sister Genevieve, alive.  With Village Children.  Smiles
of hope.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  JAXX'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Jaxx is transfixed on the photograph.  Thick files fill
her desk.  She flips through more photos -- there it is.

A PHOTO OF FIVE YOUNG MEN AND ONE YOUNG WOMEN

Stand in front of a Huey Helicopter all wearing inflated
orange spacesuits with clear bubble helmets.  They flank
Karl Johnson beside a biomedical isolator litter.  The
caption reads:

          ARMY AEROMEDICAL BIOCONTAINMENT ISOLATOR
        EVACUATION TEAM - USAMRIID - FT. DETRICK MD.

PUSH IN ON:  the young woman -- PFC Nancy Jaxx, age 22.

TILT UP TO:  JAXX

She calls up a data base.

ENTRY:  SEARCH FOR> JOHNSON, KARL M.
REPLY:  LAST RECORDED CONTACT
        BOX 11, RT. 3, GALLATIN MONTANA
        FAX:  406-586-5409

Jaxx hesitates.  She types a message quickly into the
computer.

ENTRY:  TO:  KARL JOHNSON
        FROM:  LTC NANCY JAXX - USAMRIID
        OUTBREAK IN LOCAL PRIMATE POPULATION
        CAUSE:  UNKNOWN AT THIS TIME
        PLEASE CONTACT ME AT EARLIEST CONVENIENCE

REPLY:  FAXING NOW

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  BL3 LAB - LATER THAT NIGHT

Peter works in the b.g.  WE MOVE IN ON THE TEST TUBE TO A
MICROSCOPIC VIEW:  The geography of cells are at war.

                                            CUT TO:

A SHINY GYMNASTICS MEDAL is displayed in a place setting
on the counter.

JAXX ENTERS lugging files.  Blackhawk is there to greet
her with licks and whines.

                         JAXX
          Hey, big guy.  You hungry?  So am I.

She melts seeing the medal.  There's a note.  She reads:

                         GERRY'S VOICE (V.O.)
          Your amazing daughter took second.
          Your amazing son washed the dishes.
          And your amazing husband put your
          dinner in the microwave.  Check the
          machine --

Nancy chuckles.  While the machine rewinds, she opens a
cabinet and pulls down a can of dog food.  The electric
can opener doesn't work.

                         PETER (V.O.) (PHONE MACHINE)
          Nance, Girard just called.  Seven
          more monkeys kicked.  They've got
          them on ice.  Meet C.J. there at
          0800.  This guy Girard sounds
          spooked.

She rifles the drawer.  No opener.  She uses a beer opener
punching around the edge.  The lid bends in --

Her hand slips into the can -- slicing on the jagged edge.
She holds her fist in pain checking the damage.  Nothing.
Then blood leeches from the clean cut on her right hand.


INT.  JAXX BATHROOM - NIGHT

Jaxx twines a wide Band-aid over her wound and closes the
medicine cabinet.  She jumps with fright at THE FACE
leering right behind her --

                         JAXX
          Jamie -- oh -- hon --

Jamie is half asleep -- still in her gym suit.

                         JAMIE
                  (drowsy)
          I didn't get first, Mom --


INT.  JAMIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mother and daughter enter arms around each other.

                         JAXX
          We're proud of you even if you don't
          win.  I'm just sorry I had to miss
          your big moment --

Jamie falls into bed.  Jaxx pulls off her warmups by the
pant legs.  Then the jacket.  She drifts off.  Jaxx kisses
Jamie goodnight.

                                            SHARP CUT TO:

INT.  MONKEY HOUSE - NIGHT

The CAMERA ROCKETS along the cages right up to the last
monkey.  Death stare.  A single stream of blood trickles
from it's nose.

                                            CUT TO BLACK.

FADE IN:

EXT.  SCHOOL - MORNING

Kids head for school in packs.  CRANE DOWN TO:

JAXX'S CAR - CONTINUING ACTION

Jason and Jamie exit heading for school.  Jaxx takes her
daughter's hand.  Jamie squeezes back.

                         JAMIE
                  (ritual)
          "be nice to mice," Mom.  Promise.
          Remember, "all animals --

                         JAXX
          "All animals are our brothers and
          sisters."
                  (polite parental
                   tolerance)
          I know -- I know, Princess.  Do
          good, you two -- Love you!

Jaxx watches them head for school.  It's a Mom's life.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  RESTON ALLEYWAY - MORNING (JAXX POV)

Kids romp in the play-yard at the day care center.

SUPER:  RESTON, VA. - WEDNESDAY, NOV. 17 - 0830 HRS.

Jaxx's car is parked behind the station down the alley.
She watches the kids from the payphone.

                         JAXX
                  (on phone)
          Any results yet?

INTERCUT:  PETER IN BL3 LAB

He's dragging from no sleep.  He spins another test tube
in the centrifuge.

                         PETER
                  (on phone)
          We've got zip and I'm about out of
          monkey parts.

RESUME:  JAXX

                         JAXX
                  (on phone)
          We're working on it.

HER POV - THE DAY CARE CENTER

Kids eat mud-pies.  PAN TO:  The funky rear door to the
monkey house.  Empty monkey crates are stacked in back.

                         JAXX
                  (on phone)
          Any messages?  I was expecting a
          fax --

                         PETER (V.O.) (PHONE)
          Nada.  Guess nobody loves you.

                         JAXX
                  (on phone)
          Thanks, Pete.  I needed that.

HER POV - COL. C.J. PETERS

Heading up the alley her way.  He's pissed.  Forty.
Thinning hair.  Bulging middle in his Army uniform.
Deputy Commander of "RIID."  Brilliant virologist with a
grim sense of humor.

                         JAXX
          Where's your happy face, C.J.?

                         C.J.
                  (sardonic grin)
          Girard's not going to let us in.
          He's afraid our army uniforms will
          "upset his staff."  Mercy --

                         JAXX
          I don't like this, C.J.  Day-care
          center -- little kids --

                         C.J.
          Just worry about the monkeys.
          Girard said Management's already on
          him about calling in the Army.  Tell
          you one thing, whatever's going on
          in there, he's scared.  They're
          bringing the samples here.

                         JAXX
          Oh, free home delivery.  Nice.

                                            CUT TO:

THEIR POV - A LIME GREEN VAN

Heads up the alley and stops beside them.  TINY WHIPPERT
leans from the cab.  Big toothy grin.

                         TINY
          Hi.  How you, M'am?  Uh, General
          M'am -- ?

Jaxx smiles putting the nervous Tiny at ease.

                         JAXX
          Col. Jaxx and this is Col. Peters
          Deputy Commander at RIID.

Tiny shyly lumbers out revealing Deer Rifles in a rack
behind his seat.  He ambles to the back, nursing coffee
talking a bluestreak.

                         TINY
          We got dead "cynos" ever day.  Y'all
          think y'all can find out what's
          killin'em, huh?

INSIDE THE VAN - DARKNESS

Tiny opens the door.  Jaxx and C.J. gawk at 7 plastic
garbage bags.  No one wants to be the first to grab one.

                         C.J.
          "Samples?" You brought whole
          monkeys?  Are they disinfected and
          triple bagged?

                         TINY
          You bet.  Wouldn't want to get any
          on ya --

Jaxx is appalled.

                         JAXX
          These Cynos all came from Room F?

                         TINY
          Nope.  Room H.

Jaxx and C.J. trade concerned glances.

                         JAXX
          It's jumped to a new room.  Do all
          the monkeys breathe the same air?

                         TINY
          Guess so.  If a monkey even farts in
          one room, you can smell it in
          another.  No offense M'am --

Jaxx pulls C.J. behind her car.  Both unnerved.

                         C.J.
          We've got a possible aerosol
          contaminant here -- and we know it's
          not Simian Fever.

                         JAXX
          But -- it's lethal.  I'm a
          Veterinarian.  I can't knowingly
          transport a dead animal with an
          infectious disease across state
          lines without a permit.  I can lose
          my license.  No way it's going to
          stay quiet we transported them.
          You're a Doc.  You can plead
          ignorance.

She thumps his big gold lapel bars --

                         JAXX
          This -- is why you get to wear those
          big eagles, Colonel, Sir --

SHE POINTS TO:  HIS BEAT UP HONDA

                         JAXX
          And -- your car's shittier than
          mine.

Jaxx bats her green eyes over the top "Miss Scarlett."
C.J. starts to protest.  What's the use.

C.J.'S TRUNK - TINY LOADS THE BAGS

The monkey's weight depresses the rear end of his car.
C.J. slams the lid.  It won't shut.  He and Tiny sit on
it.  It closes with a sickening crunch.

THE VAN - TINY CLIMBS IN

Sweating profusely.  He squeezes a pain between his eyes.

HIS POV - C.J.'S CAR

Tiny waves.  Suddenly, Jaxx and C.J. BLUR in Tiny's
vision.  He rubs his eyes.  His vision clears.

                         TINY
          Need anymore, just holler.  Have a
          good one now, ya hear?

C.J. waves morbidly as the VAN WIPES FRAME TO:

JAXX - LOOKING UNDER C.J.'S CAR

                         JAXX
          I better follow you.  Make sure you
          don't... drip.

                                            CUT TO:

MOVING POV (JAXX'S CAR) - FOLLOWING C.J.'S CAR

C.J. bottoms out on a bump exiting the drive.  Sparks fly.

TO JAXX - DRIVING

She whiteknuckles her steering wheel waiting for his trunk
to pop open.  It holds.


EXT.  ALLEYWAY - DAY CARE CENTER IN VIEW

As they pass by, a LITTLE BOY STANDS on top of the slide
pounding his chest like King Kong -- making monkey faces.
Kids run around scared and screeching.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  OFFICE - DAY

Jaxx hurries in and checks her message box.  She rifles
them quickly.  No Johnson.  Damn --

                                            CUT TO:

THE HOT SUITE ENTRANCE - CONTINUING ACTION

Jaxx swipes her security card over the sensor.  Pneumatic
gaskets HISS retreating around the submarine style airlock
door.  Jaxx hurries in.  The door seals shut behind her.

PUSH IN ON THE SIGN:

     WARNING:  BIOSAFETY LEVEL 4 - MAXIMUM CONTAINMENT
     AUTHORIZED PERSONAL ONLY; LIFE THREATENING AGENTS
     PRESENT; FILOVIRUSES, ARBOVIRUSES.  LASSA FEVER
     VIRUS, EBOLA VIRUS, MANTAAN VIRUS, CRIMEAN-CONGO
     HEMORRHAGIC FEVER VIRUS, MARBURG VIRUS.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  HOT SUITE - MINUTES LATER

Jaxx enters the staging area pulling on her scrubs and
surgical cap.  The RED LIGHT glows over the BL4 airlock
door.  She dials a wall phone.

                         JAXX
                  (on phone)
          Pete -- I'm going hotside.  Any last
          requests --

INTERCUT:  PETER IN BL3 LAB

He's running on fumes.

                         PETER
          Yeah, a monkey TV dinner.  We're
          striking out here.  Big zero.

He mounts a button of cells on a slicer.  A diamond knife
peels off a tiny slice.  He captures it on a tiny mesh.

INTERCUT:  JAXX - BL4 LAB

She opens a cabinet door.  Ultraviolet floods.  She pulls
out a Blue spacesuit.  One piece, soft helmet, thick
rubber gloves and foot molds -- like feet pajamas.

She slides her right hand into a surgical glove.  The
Band-aid over her cut hand is intact.  She then tapes the
glove to her sleeve with brown sticky tape.

Next she slides her gloved hands down the spacesuit
sleeves into the heavier surgical gloves.

INTERCUT:  PETER - ELECTRON MICROSCOPE ROOM

A metal tower eight feet tall.  Peter places the cell
slice in the chamber of the big scope.

INTERCUT:  JAXX - HELMET POV INSIDE SPACESUIT

Closing her diagonal zipper, then the airtight Ziploc.
She heads into a stainless-steel multiheaded "envirochem"
shower.  WE HEAR:  BREATHING.  Now her HEART BEAT, steady,
rhythmic.  Her faceplate fogs up.

INTERCUT:  PETER - ELECTRON MICROSCOPE

ON THE VIEWING SCREEN:  a cellscape appears.  Oxbow rivers
and lakes like an aerial view of a jungle.  We've seen
this view before.  An ominous sight --

INTERCUT:  JAXX - BL4 LAB

Coiled airhoses hang from the ceiling like spaghetti.
Jaxx grabs one -- and hooks it into the short hose
protruding from a "MEPA" filter canister on her thigh.

INSIDE JAXX'S SUIT - POV THROUGH HELMET

A rush of air ROARS like a freight train.  Her faceplate
clears.  She moves to a "pass through chute," opens it --
She pulls a monkey bag through onto a stainless steel
bleed table.

                                            CUT TO:

INTERCUT:  PETER - ELECTRON MICROSCOPE

He scans the cellscape, like flying.  Searching.  He
abruptly stops.  He stares in horror at the screen.

THE VIEWING SCREEN - WALL TO WALL EBOLA

So thick with virus it looks like buckets of rope.

                         PETER
          Oh shit... oh... shit...

Peter holds up a cellscape micrograph next to the viewing
screen.  The picture is labeled:  EBOLA, ZAIRE; LUNG SLICE
PATIENT 17, 1976.  It's loaded with the same virus.

INTERCUT:  JAXX - BL4 LAB

Her gloved hand picks up a scalpel from the "sharps" box.
She makes the chest incision O.S.  She raises her gloves
back into view -- both are dripping with blood.

She dunks both in the Clorox pan, cleaning them.


INT.  BL4 LAB - CHEM SHOWER

Peter enters the suite from the shower in his spacesuit.
He's distraught, carrying micrographs.

                         PETER
          Jaxx -- We got a problem --

No response.  He forgot his headset!  Sweat runs down his
nose.  His faceplate fogs up.  He clamps on an airhose.

CLOSER - HOSES

They keep snapping apart.  Peter hurries down the corridor
with no air, his breathing labored.

HIS POV - JAXX IN LAB ROOM

Probing the monkey.  Her gloves covered in blood.  Peter
waves.  She doesn't see him.  He starts to pound the
glass.  A warning sign stops him.

          INFECTIOUS AREA - DO NOT STRIKE GLASS

INSIDE JAXX'S SPACESUIT - HER POV

Air ROARS like a freight train.  She talks to herself.

                         JAXX
                  (to herself)
          Subcutaneous hemorrhaging.
          Patiechial lung hemorrhages.  Rapid
          tissue deterioration -- This thing's
          a bag of soup --

Suddenly her air stops flowing.  What?  She turns to check
the hose.  SHE FACES PETER:  her hose squeezed tightly in
his gloves.  He lets go.  Air flows.

                         JAXX
          Hey -- what's up?

He shoves the micrographs of Ebola up to her face plate.
She takes them in her bloody gloves --

                         JAXX
          You've got crud in your scope.

Peter indicates "no."  He's white as a ghost.

OUTSIDE THE SUITS - PETER

His air hose hangs loose.  Jaxx quickly clamps him onto a
spare hose.  She gets in his face.  He's panicked --

                         PETER
          It's Ebola!  I sniffed that flask!

                         JAXX
          Pete!  There's a good chance you're
          not infected!  Don't go dinki-dao on
          me now.  Antibodies.  Let's test
          them.  Get some "Sister G" serum --

She points to the big refrigerator with all the viruses.
He nods, composing himself.

ON THE BIG FRIDGE

A monolith in the dim light.  Pete punches in the computer
combination.  The titanium lock chungs.  THE DOOR OPENS.
Nitrogen fog spills out.

FOLLOW PETE'S GLOVE:  searching vials and containers
marked:  LASSA, MARBURG, ANTHRAX, HANTA, RIFT VALLEY,
ENCEPHALITIS, AIDS, EBOLA -- to one marked:  "ANTIBODY
SERUM - EBOLA ZAIRE, YAMBUKU - SISTER GENEVIEVE:
SURVIVOR."

TO JAXX AND PETE - AT THE MICROSCOPE

Peter places the slide under the fluorescent microscope
with forceps.  Jaxx presses her face plate to the scope --

MICROSCOPIC VIEW - MONKEY TISSUE

Crawling with the Filovirus.  Antibodies seize on the
cells lighting the cellscape in a foreboding purple glow.

                         JAXX
          These monkeys are loaded.  We've got
          to tell C.J. --

Peter freezes pointing at Jaxx's glove.

INSIDE SPACESUIT - HER POV

Jaxx holds her right glove up.  There's a huge hole
between her thumb and forefinger.  She instantly reacts --
JAMMING HER GLOVE in the Clorox washing it off.

                         JAXX
          Leaker -- oh shit --


INT.  CHEM SHOWER - INSIDE JAXX'S SUIT - SECONDS LATER

Envirochem pounds her suit.  The system sign glows:

          7 MINUTE ENVIROCHEM SHOWER REQUIRED TO
          DECONTAMINATE CONTAGIONS - DO NOT ENTER
              COLD SIDE WITHOUT DECON CYCLE

                         JAXX
                  (humoring herself)
          I can't die.  I don't have a baby-
          sitter.  Who'll feed my animals?
          Damn, I forgot to order the turkey
          for Thanksgiving.  I love Gerry --


INT.  STAGING AREA - MINUTES LATER

Jaxx draws her right arm from the spacesuit glove.  Her
inner surgical glove is covered in monkey blood too.
Panic.  She pours more Clorox over the glove scrubbing it
viciously with a brush trying to wash away the threat.

HER HAND - CLOSER

As she peels the glove slowly off.  She reaches the
Band-aid -- no monkey blood.  Her hand is clean.

Jaxx fills the glove up like a balloon at the faucet.
Final verdict.  No leaks.

Peter plops relieved; his suit dripping from the shower.

                         JAXX
          No leaks.  I'm fine.  No problem --

She heaves -- throwing up in the sink.

                                            CUT TO BLACK.

FADE IN:

CLOSE ON - ELECTRON MICROGRAPH PHOTO

The Ebola Cellscape.

                         C.J. (O.S.)
          Shit.


INT.  MAZE CORRIDOR - CONTINUING ACTION

C.J. sifts through the photos on the move.  Peter wears a
surgical mask due to potential exposure.  Jaxx is wired --

                         JAXX
          That's not the Lochness Monster,
          C.J.  All seven primates were
          loaded.  That monkey house is a
          viral time bomb --


INT.  GENERAL RUSSELL'S RECEPTION AREA - DAY

His door says it all:  COMMANDER ARMY MEDICAL RESEARCH.
C.J., Jaxx and Peter barrel by the startled RECEPTIONIST.

                         RECEPTIONIST
          Col. Peters, the General asked if
          this could wait until --


INT.  GEN. RUSSELL'S OFFICE - CONTINUING ACTION

They enter.  GENERAL RUSSELL is getting ready to leave.
C.J. shoves Pete's Ebola micrograph in front of him.

                         RUSSELL
          Shit.

He looks back at Jaxx, Pete and C.J.  It's not.

RUSSELL'S OFFICE - MINUTES LATER

A map of the world fills the view.  Colored pins mark
locations of viral outbreaks.  JAXX ENTERS FRAME --

                         JAXX
          We've got a killer virus 25 miles
          from Washington D.C.

                         RUSSELL
          And five miles from the CIA.  Maybe
          this is no accident.  Maybe this is
          a new war.

                         PETER
          Terrorism?  Bio-warfare?  Here?

Jaxx points to the "hot spots" in Africa.

                         JAXX
          The only Ebola outbreak on record --
          the '76 outbreak in Africa.  Now --
          you can put a pin right here.  How?

She points to the black pins in Africa and travels with
her forefinger across the Atlantic.  She dramatically
sticks a new BLACK PIN right next to Washington D.C.

                         C.J.
          Doesn't matter how the bug got here
          -- it's here.  If word gets out,
          we've got a major panic on our
          hands.  If the virus breaks out --
          we've got an epidemic.  A disaster.

Russell looks at the Cellscapes again in grim silence.

                         RUSSELL
          Pete, are we anywhere close to a
          vaccine for this bug?

Peter meekly lowers his surgical mask.

                         PETER
          I'm close on synthetic antibodies.
          But no proof it'll work on humans.
          The only antibody serum we've got is
          from Johnson's Nun.  And there's
          only enough of that to try and save
          one patient -- maybe.

He replaces his mask.  Everyone speaks at once.

                         RUSSELL
          Everybody just slow down.  Millions
          of lives could be at stake.  It'd be
          nice if we had our shit together.

Jaxx, C.J. and Peter grumble, duly admonished.

                         RUSSELL
          C.J., I'm putting you and Jaxx in
          charge of this operation.

                         C.J.
          We have to inform the CDC.  They're
          going to buck us for jurisdiction.
          This has to stay an Army operation.
          We need to get inside that monkey
          house as soon as possible before the
          bug gets outside --

                         JAXX
          Sir, there's a day care center right
          behind the primate house that should
          be closed immediately --

                         RUSSELL
          I appreciate your concern, Colonel,
          but if you do that, word'll get out
          and we'll have to close down the
          whole town.  I am not prepared to
          give that order.

Jaxx bristles.  "Hurry up and wait" as usual.  She holds
up the electron micrograph.

                         JAXX
          Then I'd like to fax these to Karl
          Johnson.  I want him in on the Epi-
          team controlling this thing.

Instant shocked reactions from the men.  Peter pumps a
fist -- "Yes" -- in support.

                         RUSSELL
          Karl?  That's a sure way to start a
          major-league panic.  He'll yell
          "fire" and scare the hell out of
          everybody.  Forget it.  He's retired.

                         C.J.
          The CDC and Karl Johnson in the same
          room is not a good idea.

                         RUSSELL
          He's big trouble, Jaxx.

                         JAXX
          With all due respect, Sir, we're
          already in trouble.  Johnson
          discovered Ebola and just about
          every other virus we're fighting.
          We need him.

Peter agrees.  He drills C.J. in angry disbelief.  C.J.
backs off -- getting angry with himself.

                         C.J.
                  (self recrimination)
          Karl taught me everything I know.  I
          should've called him myself.

                         JAXX
                  (mischievous)
          I already did.  Faxed him yesterday.

Peter chuckles, digging at C.J.  Russell goes beet red.
Jaxx prepares for the worst --

                         RUSSELL
          Damnit, Jaxx --

He fumes -- then slowly caves in.

                         RUSSELL
          Aw, what the hell -- If you can find
          him -- bring him in.  I'll call the
          CDC and tell Reese.  They'll sure
          piss in their pants.

                         JAXX
          Thank you -- Sir, Gentlemen -- guys.

Jaxx is so pumped she's out the door.

                         RUSSELL
          C.J. -- call Girard.  Limit any
          contact his personal has with the
          monkeys.  Then get a hold of
          Virginia State Health, Interior,
          Agriculture -- find Col. Takafuji at
          the Surgeon General's office.  We'll
          have a "laydown" meet here as soon
          as possible so get your data in
          order.

Russell grabs a phone -- man with a mission.

                         RUSSELL
          There's no doubt in my mind we've
          got a national emergency.  I don't
          want a panic.

FOLLOW PETER AND C.J. OUT THE DOOR

                         PETER
          "Panic?" Yeah, right.  He didn't
          sniff that flask.

TO RUSSELL - MOVES TO THE MAP ON THE PHONE

                         RUSSELL
                  (on phone)
          Reese?  Phil.  Hey, we got a problem
          up here.  Found a little pissant
          filo virus in a bunch of monkeys
          down the road.  Ebola.  What d'ya
          think about that?

                         REESE (V.O.) (PHONE)
          I think you've got crud in your
          scope.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  OFFICE - AFTERNOON - TIGHT ON FAX MACHINE

Jaxx feeds the cellscape one by one into the machine.

                         JAXX
          C'mon, Johnson.  Where are you?

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

TIGHT ON ANOTHER FAX MACHINE - TIME LAPSE DISSOLVES

Jaxx's faxes scroll from the machine curling to an old
plank floor.  Then another.  And another.  HANDS PICK up
the streams of faxes and place them in a cardboard box.

"JOHNSON" is scrawled on it in crayon.  WE CRANE UP THE
SIDE OF THE BOX:  running over with uncollected faxes.

WIDEN TO:  INT.  "BIG SKY MERCANTILE" - MORNING

Johnson's fax box sits on the floor next to a sleeping
Sheepdog.  An eclectic general store.  Everything from
bait to NY bagels and gourmet wines -- Faxes keep coming.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  "BIG SKY MERCANTILE" - MORNING

A neon "FAX" sign hangs in the dirty window.  WIDEN TO:  A
bigger sign the reads:  "Auto Repairs - Video Rentals -
Gourmet Wines - Stock Feed - Outfitters - UPS - Fedex -
Xerox Copies."

SUPER: THURSDAY, NOV. 18 - BIG SKY, MONTANA - 0900 HRS.

                                            CUT TO:

JAXX - SITTING IN RENTCAR - MERCANTILE IN VIEW

Taking in the eclectic sight.  She gets out and heads in.

                                            TIME CUT TO:

EXT.  MERCANTILE - MINUTES LATER

Jaxx exits toting the faxbox, a bundle of mail, some
fishing tackle and two-fifths of Dewars Scotch.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  BIG HORN MOUNTAINS - MORNING

As far as we can see.  Snow capped peaks.  PAN DOWN TO:


EXT.  THE BIG HORN RIVER - MORNING

KARL JOHNSON - HIS BACK TO US:  stands waist-deep in the
middle of the river.  Still in his favorite fishing hat,
he rips his line off the water and lays a cast upstream.

                         JAXX (O.S.)
          Dr. Johnson?!

JAXX - ON THE RIVER BANK

Tentative.  She yells again over the roaring rapids.

                         JAXX
          Karl Johnson?!!

CLOSER - JOHNSON

He turns to us, surprised.  He's twelve years older.  His
features elegantly weathered over the decades.  He studies
Jaxx with those piercing eyes -- like a Bear sizing her
up.

TO JAXX - ON THE BANK

                         JAXX
          I'm Nancy Jaxx.  Remember? -- I was
          a PFC in the Medical Corps your last
          year at "RIID."

He clearly doesn't recognize her.  He gets a strike
upstream.  Bad timing for Jaxx.

                         JAXX
          You trained me with the first
          Airborne medical isolator team.

He shrugs annoyed walking upstream reeling in his fish.

                         JOHNSON
          There was a women in the A.I.T.
          unit?  And I don't remember?

                         JAXX
                  (ego bruised)
          I was the only woman in that unit.
          Now I'm in Special Pathogens.

TO JOHNSON - JAXX IN VIEW

                         JOHNSON
                  (testy)
          Yeah?  So was I.  Now, I'm retired.
          Can't you see I'm fishing?!

                         JAXX
          C.J. Peters sent me!  I have to talk
          to you about Ebola!

Johnson reacts even more annoyed.  He nets his fish.

                         JOHNSON
          I don't do any lectures until the
          spring.  Contact me then --

He looks his prize brown trout in the eye and lets it go.

JAXX'S POV - THE RIVER

Jaxx watches the fish swim away --

Then she watches the man who set it free.  There is a
nobility about him as he makes his way upstream to his
Drifter Boat resting on the shore.

AT THE DRIFTER BOAT

Johnson stows his gear and starts to shove off.  Jaxx
climbs in.  Johnson thinks she's nuts.

                         JAXX
          Look -- I flew all night in a
          military transport to get here.  And
          I heard your "Emerging Viruses" talk
          at the Trop-med conference two years
          ago -- in case you don't remember.
          It was -- fascinating.  See how this
          makes you feel?

She pulls a folder from her daypack and shoves it to him.
Johnson eyes her warily as he opens it.  He stares at --

PETER'S EBOLA MICROGRAPHS

Old ghosts haunt him.  PUSH IN ON JOHNSON'S EYES:  Fixed
on the image.  SOUNDS OF AFRICA surround him.

                         JOHNSON
          Unless you include the feeling
          generated by gazing into the eyes of
          a cobra, "fascination" is not what I
          feel about Ebola.
                  (looks right at Jaxx)
          How about 'Shit scared'?

Johnson abruptly casts off.  Jaxx almost falls in.

FOLLOW THE BOAT - DOWNRIVER

Through the rapids.  Jaxx whoops hanging on.

                         JOHNSON
          There's never been a case of Ebola
          isolated on this continent!  How in
          the hell did it get to Virginia?!

He guides the Drifter expertly up a swell and crashes down
into a chute.  Jaxx yells again.

                         JAXX
          That's why I came to find you!

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  RIVER BEND - MORNING

Johnson and Jaxx pull the Drifter ashore in the calm of a
backwater.  His Cabin is visible set back in the trees.

JAXX AND JOHNSON - TRACKING

He's pumped annoyed and angry all in the same moment.  The
world has intruded on him here in paradise.

                         JOHNSON
          What about exposure?  Anybody died
          yet?  Anybody spiked fever?

                         JAXX
          Just the monkeys.  And one exposure
          at our lab so far.

He stops Jaxx in her tracks -- getting right in her
face --

                         JOHNSON
          You don't know that for sure -- do
          you?  Do you?  You don't know how
          many people this bug could be
          incubating in do you?  And I'll bet
          my hat the CDC doesn't know either.

She doesn't.  He doesn't wait for an answer.  He stalks
on.

                         JOHNSON
          I warned them this would happen.
          They didn't see what I saw in
          Africa.  As long as these viruses
          are killing black people and yellow
          people and red and brown in far off
          places -- why should we give a big
          woolly damn here at home?


EXT.  JOHNSON'S CABIN - CONTINUING ACTION

He bumps the door open and enters.  Jaxx hesitates,
bristling, pumping herself up, she follows him inside.

It's an eclectic collection of fishing gear, Indian art,
African and South American artifacts, carvings, photos --

                         JAXX
          Dr. Johnson, I think you should know
          the Ebola vaccine has been a
          priority at RIID --

                         JOHNSON
          And you haven't got one yet, do you?
          Do you?

Jaxx shakes her head "no" guiltily.

                         JOHNSON
          Do you know where Ebola comes from?
          Huh?  The natural host?  The
          reservoir?  After all these years?
          -- Take a wild guess --

Jaxx angrily shakes "no."  He opens the Dewars --

                         JOHNSON
          Don't say monkeys.  The Virus kills
          them too quick for a monk to be a
          host.  Twelve years and we still
          don't know what animal, vegetable,
          mineral or insect Ebola comes from.

-- fishing a glass from a shelf, he fills it and knocks it
back.  No sympathy from Jaxx.

                         JAXX
          So what are you hiding out here for?

He shoots her a lethal look.

                         JAXX
          Okay, "fishing."  I mean -- why did
          you retire?  Quit your research?

He pours another and one for her.  His voice calms.

                         JOHNSON
          Why?  Because nobody really wants to
          cure these diseases.  The
          Bureaucrats and Doctors would rather
          fight over who gets credit -- and
          who patents the cure.
                  (hands her a drink)
          The world's got a gun to it's head
          and there's nothing I can do to keep
          it from pulling the trigger.

It absolutely predestined truth the way Karl says it.
Jaxx heard Peter say it.  She heard enough.

                         JAXX
          -- You don't remember me, but I
          remember this about you -- I heard
          you say the best place to be in an
          outbreak is at the epicenter...
          trying anything possible to stop it
          -- I guess I was mis-informed...

She returns the full glass, completely disillusioned.

                         JAXX
          Go... fishing.

She shakes perfunctorily and heads for the door.  Johnson
watches her go with profound regret.

                         JOHNSON
          Hey -- Jaxx.  We found another virus
          in a lot of the blood samples we
          took in Zaire.  AIDS.

Jaxx stops.  Chilled.

                         JAXX
          We had AIDS samples back in '76?

                         JOHNSON
          Yeah.  But it wasn't killing anyone.
          Ebola was.

He chokes it off.  Pain and sorrow in his eyes.

                         JOHNSON
          We could've been ready for AIDS.  We
          could've saved some lives.

Jaxx stares at him in stunned silence, reeled by the
ramifications.  She has a better understanding of this
man's pain -- and a deeper respect.

                         JOHNSON
          Everyone knows "it's not nice to
          fool with Motha Nate-cha." Now
          she's got us by the --

He gestures squeezing with a cupped hand -- He cuts
himself off, suddenly an embarrassed gentleman --

                         JAXX
          "Balls," Karl.  She's got us by the
          balls.

Their eyes meet.  She's pried him loose.  He's ready.  He
offers her the full scotch glass.  She clinks it against
his.  They knock the Scotches back.  Warriors going to
war.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  FT. DETRICK - USAMRIID - AERIAL VIEW - NIGHT

SUPER:  THURSDAY, NOV. 18 - FT. DETRICK, MD - 1100 HRS.


INT.  WAR ROOM - NIGHT - ROVING POV

The CAMERA GLIDES THROUGH:  THIRTY FIVE CIVILIANS AND
MILITARY PERSONNEL caucusing and buzzing with the mission.

A HUGE PROJECTION SCREEN - THE WAR ZONE

It's not a recon photo -- but the Ebola cellscape.

A WAR MAP fills another screen.  It's of Washington D.C.
and vicinity.  A series of expanding circles fan out from
Reston, Virginia right over Washington D.C.

GENERAL RUSSELL makes his point to a small group including
COL. TAKAFUJI of the Surgeon General's and an ASSISTANT
from the Dept. of Interior.

                         RUSSELL
          If we have a respiratory threat --
          and it gets loose -- up to ten
          million people could be exposed.

TO C.J. - ACROSS THE ROOM

Coffeed out and hot tempered, makes his point to GIRARD
and some SUITS from Synergy along with CDC REPS.

                         C.J.
          This virus could jump and start
          burning through the human population
          right now.  Today.  We've got to get
          in there and depopulate the entire
          primate colony before that happens.

Instant reaction.  All focus turns to C.J.'s group.

                         GIRARD
          What about my company's investment?
          Not all the monkeys have symptoms.
          I'm not going to euthanize perfectly
          healthy specimens --

                         C.J.
          The Army will handle the operation.

C.J. is about to blow.  A familiar voice speaks up.

                         REESE
          The Army's done a great job --

CHUCK REESE separates the Army and Girard's contingent.

Chuck hasn't changed much since that day 12 years ago with
Johnson in Africa.  Now in his late 30's, he's risen to
the top of the heap at CDC.

                         REESE
           -- up to now.  And everyone at CDC
          is really grateful, C.J., to your
          team for sounding the alarm.  We'll
          take over from here.  So if you'll
          give us virus samples and your
          data --

C.J. bristles at Reese's tone.  No love lost here.

                         C.J.
          Chuck, that sounds a little like
          "give the big boys the sharp objects
          before we hurt ourselves."  Synergy
          called in the Army and we will
          maintain our alert status.

                         REESE
          C.J. -- c'mon.  We don't need to
          start a war here.

Battle lines drawn.  The room buzzes.

                         REESE
          I was in Africa with Karl Johnson
          during the Zaire event.  I worked in
          close contact with Ebola victims at
          Kinshasa for two months and was
          never infected.

Reese grabs Peter's micrographs waving them around.

                         REESE
          There was no data in Africa to
          support aerosol transmission -- We
          don't even know if it's the same
          strain.

C.J. and the USAMRIID team argue in disarray.

                         REESE
          I recommend we low-key the press and
          media.  We can't afford to "cry
          wolf" to the American public --

A commotion at the back of the room disrupts everyone --

                         JOHNSON (O.S.)
          You can't afford not to --

TO JOHNSON AND JAXX - ENTERING THE ROOM

A major stir.  Raised eyebrows and confusion around.

Johnson's name ripples through the room.

Karl shakes C.J.'s hand as he dumps his bag on the table.

                         JOHNSON
          Sorry I'm late --

C.J. glares at Jaxx -- then nods a private "thank you."
Jaxx lets out a huge sigh of relief.

                         C.J.
          Karl -- glad you're here.

Gen. Russell shakes his head waiting for the fireworks.

Reese looks like a deer caught in the headlights.

                         REESE
          Dr. Johnson -- Karl, we were just
          wrapping up --

                         JOHNSON
          Well, I'm just beginning --

FOLLOW JOHNSON - WORKING THE ROOM

Like Merlin and Clarence Darrow merged.

                         JOHNSON
          Monkeys, separated in cages with no
          social contact, are dying days and
          weeks apart from the first outbreak.
          That indicates a strong airborne
          transmission threat --

He illustrates the transmission pattern on a standup
diagram of the monkey house.

                         JOHNSON
          Do you, all of you, want to take the
          chance with innocent people?

He fixes on Girard who can't hold his piercing gaze.

                         JOHNSON
          You have to quarantine the Monkey
          Handlers and anyone who had
          unprotected contact -- NOW.  They
          could be exposed and incubating.
          You have to put a surveillance plan
          into action to watch their families
          and co-workers for symptoms --

Lots of reaction here.  Jaxx is mesmerized watching Karl
ignite the room.  Girard has had it --

                         GIRARD
          Is this man in charge here?

General Russell pulls C.J. aside --

                         RUSSELL
          You better control him, C.J.

C.J. just grins and nods, loving every minute of this.
Reese jockeys for the floor.

                         REESE
          Look, we don't know if the virus can
          jump species from monkeys to people.
          Nobody's sick.  Right?

Girard nods confirming this fact.  Reese scores points --

                         REESE
          The monkeys with Ebola are going to
          die anyway.  We'll harvest the
          infected ones and save the rest.

Girard and the Synergy contigent audibly approve.  The
power has shifted visibly in the room.

                         REESE
          Karl -- I think you're
          overreacting --

Wrong thing to say.   Karl drills Reese with his eyes --

                         JOHNSON
          I am...?  It only takes seven days
          to find out once you've got it.
          First come the headaches -- followed
          by a relentless fever.  Then the
          hemorrhaging begins.  Your skin goes
          pulpy and tears easily.  It speckles
          with petechiae -- erupts is a rash
          that turns your flesh to tapioca
          pudding.  Your bowels fill up
          completely with blood.  So do your
          eyeballs.  You vomit a thick black
          fluid -- After bloody diarrhea, you
          pass your intestines, what's left of
          them --

JAXX SURVEYS THE ROOM - SHE SEES:

Disgust, horror, fear.  One Man leaves the room nauseated.

                         JOHNSON
          A man's testicles swell up the size
          of footballs.  And if you're not
          dead by then or comatose, you've
          become hostile -- acute psychosis --
          dementia --

A Preacher's pause...

                         JOHNSON
          At the end, you're leaking blood and
          huge quantities of virus from the
          nose, mouth, anus, eyes, nipples --
          rips in the skin...

-- letting the images sink in.

                         JOHNSON
          The black plague killed four out of
          ten people.  When the white man and
          the red man exchanged diseases,
          seven out of ten died.  Ebola wipes
          the slate -- nine out of ten people
          in this room won't be here.

He turns, making eye contact with everyone in the room.

                         JOHNSON
          You have no choice -- but to cry
          wolf.

... Dead fucking silence.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  BL3 LAB - NIGHT

Peter draws his own blood with a syringe.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

PETER IN HIS SPACESUIT - MINUTES LATER

He places his blood slide under the microscope and studies
it on the monitor.  He sits back relieved.  He swivels in
his stool to a wall calendar.

THE CALENDAR - CLOSER

He marks another day off in red.  Two down, five to go to
the day he's marked "E-DAY"... Thanksgiving.

TO JOHNSON - AT THE HOTSUITE TALK PORT

                         JOHNSON (TALK PORT)
          Anybody home?

His voice vibrates through thin diaphragms set in the
thick glass enabling communication into the suite.

Peter walks to the glass happy to see his old mentor.

                         PETER (TALK PORT)
          Just us flesheaters.

Karl gets a good look at Peter close to the glass.  Guinea
Pigs fill the wall behind him.  His followers.

                         JOHNSON (TALK PORT)
          I heard about your little flask
          sniffing episode.  How're you doing?

Peter looks at the non-existent watch on his suit wrist.

                         PETER (TALK PORT)
          Let's see, I was exposed two days
          ago.  Incubation takes about a week;
          therefore.  If I'm infected, I
          should be getting my first headaches
          in, oh, about five days.  If I spike
          a fever, seven days later -- the
          guys around here will be flipping
          coins to see who gets my vacation
          days --

Karl doesn't laugh.  Peter sobers under his stern eye.

                         JOHNSON
          If the bug spreads by aerosol, you
          won't be the only one with a
          headache.

Peter shys, almost sheepish.

                         PETER (TALK PORT)
          Actually, I've been sleeping here --
          in the lab.  I don't want to expose
          my family...

Karl is impressed by his protege's discipline.

                         JOHNSON
          You know you're not contagious
          unless you have symptoms, Pete.
          Don't woof me.  How's your blood?

                         PETER (TALK PORT)
                  (crossing his gloved
                   fingers)
          No Ebola antibodies yet.  The test
          tube-witch willing -- I can go home
          for Thanksgiving.

He points to:  THE CALENDAR:  THANKSGIVING; five more
days.  Peter smiles hopefully.  Karl sees the fear in his
eyes.

                         JOHNSON
          Reese still doesn't believe the
          bug's airborne.  All that red tape
          must've choked off the air supply to
          his brain.

Peter pushes his glasses back up on his nose through his
plastic visor -- he motions Karl inside.

                                            CUT TO:

MICROSCOPIC VIEW - MONKEY SHOT

Crawling with the virus.  Armies of it.  A huge Ebola
brick shaped like a shark fills the view.

                         PETER (O.S.) (TALK PORT)
          Monkey snot -- Look at that big
          honker.  Definite airborne threat.


INT.  HOT SUITE - BL3 SIDE - CONTINUING ACTION

Karl peers at the monitor scope wearing surgical mask,
visor, gloves and scrubs.  He sits back depressed.

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          I hate being right sometimes.  The
          monkey house is not the end.  It's
          the beginning.

He muses -- eyes fixed on some other horizon.

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          How are you fixed for Sister
          Genevieve?

                         PETER (FM MIC)
          Gold plated stuff.  Her immuno
          plasma is still the strongest
          therapy we've got against Ebola...
          At least in my guinea pigs.

Peter reverently holds up a packet of plasma to the glass
marked "Sister G."  Johnson savors it.  A long lost
friend.

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          Sister "G"... she beats Ebola -- She
          beats it -- then dies of AIDS three
          years later she picked up in the
          same hospital... Hell, nobody said
          life was fair.

                         PETER (FM MIC)
          We're down to less than four units.

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          That's not quite enough to fight an
          epidemic.

                         PETER (FM MIC)
          If Sister "G" was alive, I could
          clone her immune cells for my
          synthetic antibody trials.  We could
          crank out anti-ebola serum like a
          Chinese noodle factory.  We could
          immunize our troops -- dogs -- cats
          -- even politicians --

The two men share a moment of hopeful laughter.

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          C'mon.  Let's blow this fishtank.
          Beer and Pulitzer Pizza on me.

Peter doesn't move.  He shakes his head reluctantly "no."

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          You're a good virologist, Pete.

Karl puts his gloved hand on the glass by Peter's.

PETER - AT THE WINDOW

This funny little man in a blue spacesuit smiles shyly
from the BL4 lab window like a big lonely blue fish.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  JAXX'S VET CLINIC - LATE NIGHT

Gerry checks the leg cast on a BIRDDOG.  Blackhawk snoozes
at his feet.  Suddenly the Big Bouvier is up -- alert --

JAXX ENTERS from the house carrying a couple of beers
still in her traveling clothes.  Ever up.  Tireless.

                         JAXX
          Room service.

She hugs Gerry from behind rocking to and fro.

                         GERRY
          I'll give you about an hour to stop
          that --

She plops beside him and pops the beers.

                         GERRY
          How's the legendary Dr. Johnson?
          Still the "ladies man"?

                         JAXX
          I wouldn't kick him out of bed.

She's pricking him.  Gerry punches her half-jealous.

                         GERRY
          So?  You're going to nuke the monkey
          house?

                         JAXX
          No.  Just one room.  About a hundred
          "cynos."  Synergy's stonewalling.
          They're still arguing.  CDC is low
          keying the whole thing to "John Q."

Gerry whistles his disapproval.

                         JAXX
          C.J. put me in charge of the monkey
          operation.  I'm looking for "a few
          good men -- AND women."

                         GERRY
          What about Army S.W.A.T.?

                         JAXX
          They won't touch it.

                         GERRY
          What about Special Forces?

                         JAXX
          They won't touch it.

                         GERRY
          Colonel, Jaxx, you don't need the
          Green Berets.  I've got more
          military experience handling
          diseased animals than even anybody
          at RIID.  I'm your first volunteer.

Gerry takes her in his arms.  She breaks off troubled.

                         GERRY
          I've seen this look on you before.
          This is the "our daughter needs a
          training bra stare."  You're worried
          about the kids?

                         JAXX
          They're growing up so fast.  I was
          thinking -- if anything happens...
          to either of us, I'd feel better if
          the kids where someplace safe...

                         GERRY
          We can send them down to my folks
          for an early holiday... So they miss
          a couple of days of school before
          Thanksgiving.  They won't mind --

Gerry holds her to him.  She gets a chill.

                         JAXX
          This is "closehold" info.  We can't
          even tell Jason and Jamie why.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  JAXX'S HOUSE - MORNING

Gerry loads the kid's duffels in his pickup.  Jaxx says
goodbye to Jamie.  Jason hangs back.

                         JAMIE
          Mom?  What's going on?

                         JAXX
          Don't worry, Hon.  We're going to be
          real busy at the lab and --

Jamie instantly goes on the offensive.

                         JAMIE
          -- and you just don't want me around
          when you off a bunch of defenseless
          guinea pigs.  Right?

Jamie pulls away from their embrace.

                         JAXX
          Jamie -- I'll explain it all --

                         JAMIE
                  (not interested)
          Dad got out of the army.  Why can't
          you?

Silence.  Jamie climbs in and slams the door glaring at
her mother through the windshield.

Jaxx puts on a braveface --

                         JAXX
          See you Thanksgiving.  Tell Popsy
          and Mama to bring their appetites.
          Love you...

-- watching them leave.  Blackhawk barks them away.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  USAMRIID ANIMAL FARM - AFTERNOON

A pastoral farm.  Sheep and Goats graze.  Several horses
roam the corral.  The oddity is the ARMY MEN AND WOMEN
assembled at the barn in camouflage fatigues.  Officially,
they are classified as "91 Tango Animal Handlers."  The
Veterinarians Corps.  Jaxx addresses them.

SUPER:  FRIDAY, NOV. 19 - USAMRIID ANIMAL FARM - 0800 HRS.

                         JAXX
          The General Public pretty much
          believes we're into biological
          warfare and torturing animals for
          research -- I know my daughter
          does --

Laughter ripples.

                         JAXX
          We know our mission is to save human
          lives on the battlefield --

Most are in their "teens."  Klages is there with SGT.
PIERRA, her boyfriend.  Godwin holds a baby goat feeding
it milk from a bottle.

                         JAXX
          Now we have a chance to do just that
          right where we live.  This operation
          involves a high degree of risk.
          You'll be working in a densely
          populated area under close quarters
          to euthanize diseased animals
          infected with a rare and most deadly
          pathogen.

Grave faces stare back at her.  She tries to lighten up.

                         JAXX
          Hey -- the Green Berets passed.
          Fighting viruses doesn't suit their
          image, they say.  The Navy Seals
          chickened out.  You're 91 Tango
          Animal Care Specialists!  You're
          better trained for this operation
          than any branch of the military!

Big reaction from the young group.  Klages and her
Boyfriend lead the whoop.

                         JAXX
          This is on a volunteer basis.  I
          can't tell you how important our
          success is to the safety of
          thousands of innocent people.

This brings everyone down to earth.  Klages squeezes her
Boyfriend's hand and steps forward.

                         KLAGES
          I'd like to help, Colonel.

Jaxx nods.  Klages is only a few years older than Jamie.
Immediately her boyfriend "volunteers" too.  Then another.

                         JAXX
          Thank you.  This is closehold info.
          We don't want a panic before the
          operation.  No discussion with
          family or friends.  Am I clear?

Godwin pipes up with her goat.

                         GODWIN
          Colonel, Jaxx, M'am.  My folks had
          to sign a waiver for me to get in
          the Army.  I'm still 17.  I don't
          want to miss this --

Jaxx beams with pride at the bravery of these kids.

                         JAXX
          I'd be proud to have you, Pvt.
          Godwin.  But you need a note from
          your mother.

Laughter.  Godwin is embarrassed.  Jaxx gives her a Mom
hug.


INT.  BARN - MORNING

Jaxx spots Johnson feeding a big Clydesdale.  She enters.

                         JAXX
          Well, we have the first bio-hazard
          team in U.S. history --

                         JOHNSON
          Doesn't matter what kind of war it
          is -- we still send kids to do the
          fighting.

                         JAXX
          I sent mine to Grandma's house.

Johnson grins, then sees Jaxx isn't trying to be funny.
Silence.  He handfeeds more oats to the horse.

                         JOHNSON
          We're looking at one of life's true
          mysteries.

Jaxx eyes him, puzzled.  He leads the horse out.

                         JOHNSON
          Ebola won't even make this horse
          even a little sick, a dumb animal.
          But the same bug can wipe out the
          most intelligent species on Earth.


EXT.  BARN - CONTINUING ACTION

                         JOHNSON
          Makes you wonder who's the smarter
          species -- Us or Them...

Johnson turns the horse loose.  It bolts into the pasture.
Jaxx looks at him long and hard.

                         JAXX
          You find the viruses beautiful,
          don't you...

It's not a question.  It's her scientific observation.

                         JOHNSON
                  (softly, gently)
          Oh yeah.  Looking at Ebola under an
          electron microscope is like looking
          at a gorgeously wrought ice castle.
          The thing is so cold.  So totally
          pure.

THEIR POV - THE PASTORAL SETTING AROUND THEM

The upper Potomac gleams before the Appalachians.

                         JOHNSON
          These viruses have been on Earth a
          long, long time.  Along comes the
          human invasion.  Too many people
          violating the habitat.

He picks up a handful of hay to illustrate --

                         JOHNSON
          We clear a forest, the virus comes
          out.  It doesn't "emerge."  We crash
          right into the bugs.  Bam.
          Epidemic.  Our population gets
          thinned out.  This is nature.

-- tossing strands away until the last straw remains.

                         JAXX
          Wiping us out?  It can't get that
          far -- can it?

                         JOHNSON
          Nobody's safe from this bug, Nancy.
          None of us --

Jaxx reaches out taking the last straw.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  MONKEY HOUSE - DAY

A NOTICE:  ALL OPERATIONS OTHER THAN FEEDING,
           OBSERVATION AND CLEANING ARE SUSPENDED.
           ANYONE ENTERING ANIMAL ROOMS MUST HAVE
           FULL PROTECTION, RESPIRATOR AND GLOVES.
           DEAD ANIMALS ARE TO BE DOUBLE BAGGED AND
           PLACED IN REFRIGERATOR.

                                     S. GIRARD

WIDEN TO:  TINY; reading the notice in the maintenance
room.  His eyes are red.  He's sweating.  Deke, the
handler who looks like a Biker, is panicked.

                         DEKE
          What's all this 'sposed t'mean -- ?

Tiny wipes his forehead.  He's spooked but hides it.

                         TINY
          Ah, just "monkey flu," prob'ly.


INT.  MONKEY HOUSE - FRONT OFFICE - DAY

The room is jammed with HANDLERS and LAB WORKERS.

Two EIS OFFICERS in white military style uniforms sit at
the desks interviewing People one by one and taking blood
samples.  TINY is next in line before Deke.

GIRARD ROAMS uneasily.  Everyone in the room looks uneasy.

REESE fields questions.  A BLACK WOMAN cuts him off --

                         BLACK WOMAN
          I don't care what happened in
          Africa.  I wanna know if I'm gonna
          get sick working here and maybe die
          'fore my children get home from
          school --

This is not the "low key" meeting Reese had hoped for.

                         REESE
          Please just be calm.  One of the
          Epidemic Investigators will take
          care of you.
                  (points to EIS
                   officers)
          Your bloodtests are confidential.
          If you have any of the symptoms --
          call us immediately.

THE VIEW ROCKETS IN ON TINY - AT THE EXAMINATION TABLE

He watches his blood rise in the vial from the needle in
his arm.  Squeamish -- sweat rivulets run down his nose.

                                            CUT TO BLACK.

FADE IN:

EXT.  MONKEY HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

All angles.  silent.  Waiting.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  JAXX HOME - SAME TIME

Jaxx feeds her menagerie.  This could be the last time.
Maggie, the old bulldog, manages to wake up for a big face
lick.  Her Parrots wolf whistle.

                         JAXX
                  (ritual)
          Thanks, guys.  Eat your heart out
          girls.

Blackhawk jumps up for a hug, almost refusing to let her
go as if the dog knows there is danger ahead.

Gerry enters, duffel bag in hand.  It's time.


EXT.  POST HOUSING - EARLY MORNING

PVT. KLAGES exits in her civvies and gets in a waiting
car driven by her boyfriend, SGT. PIERRA.  They drive on.


INT.  POST HOUSING APT. - EARLY MORNING

PVT. GODWIN talks on the phone to her mother.

                         GODWIN
                  (on phone)
          Everything's fine, Mom, really.  I
          have to go, Mom.  Love you, too.


INT.  HOT SUITE - EARLY MORNING

Peter checks his blood under the scope.  He "high-fives"
air -- marking another day on his calendar.  "Three to
go."

He does some jumping jacks to rev himself up.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  USAMRIID

Bitter cold.  Overcast.  EIGHT ARMY MEMBERS load the three
white UNMARKED VANS with anesthesia/euthanasia gear, ice
chests for samples, etc.  All wear civvies.

                         JAXX (V.O.)
          Action report, Col. Nancy Jaxx.
          November 20th.  Assembled Team at
          Post, 0630.  Civilian clothes for
          drive to Reston to avoid
          attention --

JOHNSON pitches in with JAXX and GERRY loading gear.

A 4 Man AIRBORNE MEDICAL ISOLATOR TEAM load an isolator
stretcher -- hermetically sealed with its own air supply.
Orange spacesuits with bubble helmets are stacked on top.

                         JAXX (V.O.)
          No personnel with experience in
          Racal spacesuits except me; I've
          asked the Airborne Medical Isolator
          Team to give technical support --

INSIDE LEAD VAN - GODWIN AND KLAGES

Sit in back "shucking" syringes; i.e. removing the
wrappers from syringes and loading them with anesthetic.

                         JAXX (V.O.)
          Mood tense... Anticipation high...

They eye the stretcher warily as it's loaded.  Casualties?

REAR DOORS CLOSE - BLACKENING THE SCREEN

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  MONKEY HOUSE - MORNING

A few PEOPLE are going to work in other buildings.  GIRARD
PARKS in front of Synergy.

HIS POV - MAIN ENTRANCE

Deke, the handler, is standing on the lawn wearing a
respirator, gloves and heavy jumpsuit.

Girard gets out furious.

                         GIRARD
          What are you doing outside?  People
          can see --

Deke suddenly raises his respirator, drops to his knees
and vomits.  Girard recoils.  "Scared shitless."

                                            SHARP CUT TO:

EXT.  INTERSTATE 495 - MORNING

The White Vans creep in rush hour traffic.

INSIDE LEAD VAN - STUCK IN TRAFFIC

Johnson smokes anxiously reading the Washington Post.  We
see the inside headline:  "Deadly Ebola Virus Found in Va.
Laboratory Monkey:  Animals Sent to U.S. from
Philippines."

                         JOHNSON
                  (reading; cringing
                   with the words)
          "This virus does not spread that
          easily," said CDC expert Chuck
          Reese, "There's a low probability of
          someone getting infected."

HIGH ANGLE - I 495 - CONTINUING ACTION

The traffic stretches to the Potomac.  The Washington
Monument and Capitol hill gleam white in the morning sun.

                         RADIO (V.O.)
          -- And V.P., Dan Quayle said to
          reporters President Bush is not
          breaking his "read my lips" promise.
          It's Congress who's forcing him to
          ask for new taxes --

INTERCUT:  WAR ROOM - USAMRIID - SAME TIME

LOCAL NEWS plays on three TVs.  C.J. covers his phone,
signaling a Deputy C.O.

                         C.J.
          It's Girard.  They've got a man
          down.  Get Reese -- and Johnson.

INTERCUT:  GIRARD - IN HIS OFFICE

PARAMEDICS carry Deke out on a litter.  Girard is scared.

                         GIRARD
                  (on phone)
          He's got symptoms.  I'm evacuating
          the building and... I'm officially
          requesting the Army to destroy all
          the monkeys... Sterilize the whole
          facility...

TO C.J. - WAR ROOM

                         C.J.
                  (on phone)
          I'll need that in writing.  The
          Team's already enroute.

                                            CUT TO:

TIGHT ON FAX MACHINE - A MESSAGE SCROLLS OUT

It's from Girard.  C.J. reads it.  The "go ahead."

RESUME:  THE LEAD VAN - CLEAR TRAFFIC AHEAD

Karl hangs up the mobile phone.  He's pumped.

                         JOHNSON
          The good news is we're nuking the
          whole colony.  The bad news is the
          virus just jumped species.  A
          Handler went to the hospital with
          symptoms.  It'll be all over the six
          o'clock news.

AHEAD - THEIR POV

The RESTON exit sign rushes toward them.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  MONKEY HOUSE - REARVIEW - MORNING

The Vans deploy on the grass behind the building.  Girard
waits at the Maintenance door with the 2 EIS Officers.

TEAM POV - INSIDE THE VAN

Gerry and the rest of the Team watch from the Vans as
Girard and Jaxx speak inaudibly.  He hands her the keys to
the building and the signed release.  He practically runs
to his car -- he can't wait to get out of there.

The EIS Officers head inside.  Jaxx signals.

THE VANS - DOORS OPEN

AIT PERSONNEL pile out and carry equipment inside.

                         JAXX
          Tell everyone to hit the head.  Once
          they suit up the only place to go is
          down your leg.

MAJ. HAINES, the AIT leader, cracks up.  Tension released.


INT.  LEAD VAN - MORNING

Gerry throws sheets of plastic over a rope dividing the
back of the van into a crude changing room.

THE NEAR SIDE:  Gerry and Sgt. Pierra strip naked.
Shivering in the cold, they jerk on surgical scrubs.

THE FAR SIDE:  Klages and Godwin laugh embarrassed.
Klages starts shucking clothes.  Then Godwin.  Both
freezing cold.

OUTSIDE - JOHNSON - DAY CARE CENTER IN VIEW

Jaxx joins him.  The sound of children echoes in the air.

                         JOHNSON
          Nice neighborhood.  Kids.  Fast
          food.  Diseased monkeys.  Good city
          planning.

THEIR POV - THROUGH THE TREES

The playground and happy children.  Jaxx purges her guilt.

                         JAXX
          We're carrying out this o.p. next to
          children -- We should've told them
          -- We should've evacuated them.

                         JOHNSON
          Why didn't you?

                         JAXX
          Orders.  Might start a panic.  I'd
          pick panic over an epidemic anyday.

PUSH IN CLOSE ON JOHNSON

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  MONKEY HOUSE STAGING AREA - MORNING

The storeroom is crowded.  The AIT's help Klages, Godwin,
Sgt. Pierra, Maj. Haines, Lt. Rice, Gerry Jaxx and
Johnson into the orange lightweight RACAL spacesuits and
plastic bubble helmets.  The EIS officers observe.

NOTE:  This process requires one person act as "dresser"
-- like putting armor on a Knight.  Brown sticky tape is
applied to all seams and zippers.  Suiting up continues
throughout this scene.

JAXX ENTERS

Shivering in her scrubs.  She lays down sticking her legs
up.  The AIT leader spreads her suit legs.  She pulls them
on.  She briefs as she suits up.  This like a cadence.

                         JAXX
          I know they look like "K-Mart
          specials," but the Racals will
          protect you in BL4 conditions.

Once again she evokes some nervous laughter releasing
tension.  She straps her battery pack blower on her back.

                         JAXX
          You've got six hours on the air pump
          battery.  So decon out before it
          fails or you're in trouble.

She holds up a roll of sticky tape --

                         JAXX
          These suits are fragile.  Monkey
          claws and fangs'll slice them like
          butter -- If you get a rip --

She easy rips a rend in her leg spooking everyone.

                         JAXX
          -- tape it shut fast or contaminated
          air can flow inside.  I keep extra
          tape around my legs just in case.

She tapes the rend shut.  Gerry checks the seal.  GODWIN
AND KLAGES look at each other.  "What've we done?"

                         JAXX
          Be exquisitely careful.  Stick with
          your buddy.  Watch for rips in each
          other's suits.

She pulls on her gloves and tapes the wrists.

                         JAXX
          Know where your hands are at all
          times.  If you get blood on you,
          stop and clean it off.  With bloody
          gloves, you can't see holes in them.
          Believe me, I know from
          experience... Gerry?

Gerry holds up a syringe --

                         GERRY
          Never hand a used needle to your
          buddy.  If a needle comes out of its
          cap, it goes straight into an
          animal --

He fixes the syringe on the end of a special pole with a
syringe clamp on the end.  A deadly spear.

                         GERRY
          Don't recap it.  You could stick
          yourself.  Bag it.

He removes the syringe and drops it in a disposable bag.

                         JAXX
          Everyone decons out to the cold side
          for a fifteen minute break every two
          hours.  If you get tired, or sick --
          tell your supervisor.

ON THE BIO-HAZARD TEAM

Godwin, Maj. Haines, Lt. Rice, Maj. Powell, Gerry Jaxx and
Karl Johnson.  One by one, the AIT Team fit clear bubble
helmets over their heads and tie them in place.

Klages' suit pressurizes making her look fat.  Nervous
giggles.  Lots of sweat.  All excited and scared.

                         JAXX
          Karl... Anything to add...?

Johnson takes a moment, then --

                         JOHNSON
          We're going to euthanize a whole
          building full of animals as humanely
          as possible.  Remember, they're sick
          and dying.  They were caught up in
          this... It's not their fault.

Faces in helmets.  Grimset.  Scared.  Air blowers kick on
one by one.  FM headsets activate.

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          Don't forget for a second -- they
          carry the most deadly virus known.
          Let's go.  We'll go in by twos --

The Team grabs up gear and line up like paratroopers --

Gerry presses his helmet to Jaxx's.

                         GERRY (FM MIC)
          How am I supposed to kiss you good-
          bye, Colonel?

                         JAXX (FM MIC)
          We're on the air, Ger.  Watch your
          "six."

She points behind him.  The Team is smiling at them.

Jaxx presses her helmet to her lips with her pointer
finger then presses it to him.  Their eyes say it all.

THEIR POV - THE DOOR

Push in on the Red Trefoil Biohazard symbol until it fills
the view --


INT.  GRAY ZONE - CONTINUING ACTION

The staging area door opens slowly.  Light spills into the
long dark hallway leading to the holding rooms.

GERRY AND JOHNSON

Step into the "gray zone."  The air is heavy.  Dense.  No
sounds from the monkeys.  Gerry instantly pours sweat.
Their helmets fog up --

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          Damnit -- can't see.  It's burning
          up in here.  Must be 90 degrees --

                         GERRY (FM MIC)
          Thermostat?  Let's find it.

They head into the musky corridor.  Fluorescent lights
glow that "end-of-the-world-red" in the heavy musky air.

TO JAXX - AT THE THRESHOLD

One breath and she LEADS THE TEAM in by twos.

KLAGES AND GODWIN pause at the door.  WE HEAR:  their
breathing, the rush of air, their heartbeats.  They
squeeze each other's hands, and enter --

FOLLOW JOHNSON AND GERRY - HELMET POV

Fogged helmets.  Air pump rushing.  Poor vision.  They
turn the corner at the cage washing area --

FACE TO FACE WITH TWO MEN --

MONKEY HANDLERS POV - BEINGS IN SPACESUITS

Coming right at them.  The Handlers look at each other.
They're in jeans and t-shirts.  What the hell is going on?

                         GERRY (THROUGH HELMET)
          What the hell are you doing here?!
          This is a hot zone --

Loc, the Vietnamese, points to the dismantled thermostat
and speaks rapidly in his language.  Johnson understands.

                         JOHNSON
                  (in Vietnamese)
          He doesn't mean "heat" -- "death."
          "Killing field."  Leave now.

They escort the two frightened Men away.


INT.  STAGING AREA - THE AIRLOCK DOOR OPENS

The two frightened men enter.  Gerry slams the door behind
them.  The two EIS officers on duty look up surprised.


INT.  GRAY ZONE - MINUTES LATER

QUICK CUTS:  KLAGES AND GODWIN lay out necropsy tools on a
bleed table; scalpels, cutters, lancets, pipettes, blood
syringes -- the "sharps."

PIERRA sets out rows of "kill syringes."  RICE stacks
plastic bags and biohazard body boxes.

WITH JAXX AND JOHNSON - ROOM "F"

They pause at the door to Room "F."  Karl carries a mop
handle with a "U-shaped" prong on the end to hold the
monkey.  Jaxx carries the pole and a bag of syringes.  She
signals down the hall to:

GERRY AND MAJ. HAINES; Ready at Door "H."  Gerry counts
three -- they enter.


INT.  ROOM F - JAXX'S POV - THROUGH HELMET

Johnson pushes open the door with his broom handle.  It's
dark.  Visibility poor.  Instantly MONKEYS screech and
rattle about.  An unnerving cacophony in the gloom.

                         JAXX (FM MIC)
          Cynos haven't been fed.  They're
          freaked -- Hunger gets them hostile.

HELMETS POVS - MISTY IMAGES APPEAR DREAMLIKE

MONKEY EYES STARING AT US.  NOSES BLEEDING.  FANGS
FLASHING.  PAWS CLAWING AT US THROUGH THE BARS.

TO JOHNSON:  Sounds of Africa surround him.  He blinks.

FLASH TO:  MONKEYS SWARMING OVER HIS ROVER

Faces of the dead.  Burning huts.  The big Male standing
four feet tall on his hood screeching at him --

RESUME:  MONKEY HOUSE - TIGHT ON MONKEY

Screeching from its cage.  Karl jerks back breathing hard.
JAXX APPEARS beside him.

                         JAXX
          Karl?  Karl!  You okay?

He nods, his heart pounding.


INT.  ROOM H - FOLLOW GERRY AND HAINES

Moving from cage to cage with precision and rhythm; HAINES
PINS a monkey with the mop handle O.S., GERRY THRUSTS his
pole syringe in the cage injecting the animal O.S.  Gerry
dumps the used syringe and loads another.  They move like
a martial arts kata.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  DAY CARE CENTER - DAY - MONKEY HOUSE IN B.G.

Children play enjoying the day.


EXT.  RESTON ST. - SAME TIME

People come and go at the McDonalds across the street.
Down the block at the Amoco Station, more mundane life.
The Grocery store advertises "Butterball Turkeys."

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  FAIRFAX HOSPITAL - ISOLATION ROOM - SAME TIME

Deke lays sedated in an oxygen tent.  Reese is there with
TWO HOSPITAL OFFICIALS and MEDICAL STAFF who are nervous.

                         REESE
          Full barrier gear; scrubs, gloves,
          masks must be worn.  I don't want
          any other patients on this floor
          until we do the bloodwork and find
          out if he's really contracted the
          virus.

C.J. pulls him aside.  The Doctors talk uneasily O.S.

                         C.J.
          Let's get him back to the post.  Our
          medical slammer has BL4 isolation.
          Our med-staff are trained for
          this --

                         REESE
          We'll contain it here.  Protecting
          the public from infectious diseases
          is our jurisdiction.  Don't make a
          scene, C.J., please --

                         C.J.
          A scene?  This guy's bloodwork was
          done here in their lab.  If it's
          lethal with virus and contamination
          occurs, this hospital will go up
          like wildfire.

Reese escorts C.J. politely from the room.

                                            CUT TO:

RESUME:  MONKEY HOUSE - INT.  GRAY ZONE - LATER

Klages bags liver and spleen samples and puts them in a
cooler full of organs.  Her gloves are covered in blood.
She washes the bloody table with Clorox then places
another monkey down.  She picks up a swab and takes a nose
sample, flips it, takes another --

CLOSE ON - GODWIN

Drawing blood from a sedated monkey.  (Only syringe and
part of monkey hindquarter visible).  As blood fills the
tube; TILT UP TO:  GODWIN singing softly to the monkey,
like mother to child -- Eric Clapton's "Tears in Heaven."

As she places the blood vial in a box filled with blood
samples, we see she is crying.

CLOSE ON PIERRA - FEELING THE PRESSURE

He fumbles for a scalpel with his gloves.

He slits the top from a cadaver bag and peers in.  (We
don't see what he sees).  His breathing is rapid.

                         PIERRA (FM MIC)
          Can't breath in here.

Klages turns to him.  Checking him out --

                         KLAGES (FM MIC)
          You okay?

INSIDE SUIT - HELMET POV

Sweat rivulets run down his forehead into his eyes.  His
faceplate fogs up.  He wipes instinctively with his glove
smearing the visor on his wet face making it worse.

                         PIERRA (FM MIC)
          Get me outta this fuckin' thing!

OUTSIDE SUIT - WIDER

He wipes his faceplate violently with his glove.  The
scalpel in his hand slices the clear plastic bubble open.
Air rushes out.  He goes nuts --

                         PIERRA (FM MIC)
          Aw, fuck!  I'm leaking!  Oh shit!

KLAGES FORCES the scalpel from his hand.  He flails,
knocking over the tray of sharps.  His airhose uncouples.

GERRY ENTERS the Gray Zone on the double.  He grabs Pierra
from behind pinning his arms back.

KLAGES GETS RIGHT IN HIS FACE

                         KLAGES (THROUGH HELMET)
          Sergeant!  Look at me!

Pierra does -- military reflex.  Klages, in control, rips
a piece of brown sticky tape from a roll on her sleeve --
and tapes shut the tear in his faceplate.

Gerry rehooks his hose.  Air rushes in.  His suit holds
it.

                         GERRY (FM MIC)
          You're Okay!  You're not losing air
          pressure.

Pierra instantly calms.  He smiles sheepishly at Klages --

                         PIERRA (FM MIC)
          Thanks... buddy...

-- and faints on the floor in his clumsy suit.


INT.  STAGING AREA - CONTINUING ACTION

Gerry and Klages help Pierra through the door.  Rice and
Haines instantly hose the trio down with disinfectant.

Gerry is exhausted.  He's white as a ghost.  And aged --

                         KLAGES
          Thanks, Mr. Jaxx -- you look --
          older --

                         GERRY
                  (meeting her gaze)
          I thought I just felt that way.
                  (looks around
                   concerned)
          Where's Nancy?  Has she taken a
          break yet?  Johnson?

Klages indicates "no."


INT.  ROOM K - LOW ANGLE

Jaxx crawls into frame on her hands and knees.  She loads
another pole syringe and peers into the next cage.  She
vapor locks -- staring at a very scary sight.

HER POV - AN EMPTY OPEN CAGE

                         JAXX (FM MIC)
          We've got a loose one!

She stands up peering around the dank dark room.  It could
be anywhere.  KARL POPS UP on the other side of the row
scaring the shit out of her --

                         JAXX (FM MIC)
          Aw -- Jesus Christ --

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          I don't think so -- !  Where'd it
          go?

He fumbles his flashlight on checking the lower cages.

                         JAXX (FM MIC)
          Just keep looking --

Something rattles in the corner.  They wheel.  Nothing.

Johnson's air blower suddenly stops.  His suit begins to
deflate.  He turns to Jaxx --

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          Nancyyyy --

She spanks his battery pack.  It sputters to life.  He
smiles in relief.  It dies again.

                         JAXX (FM MIC)
          It's dead.  Get out of here.

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          I'm not leaving you.  I've got two
          minutes air in the suit --

UP IN THE CEILING - PREDATOR POV - LOOKING DOWN

A shadowy figure moves impossibly along the ceiling right
above them.  Sitting ducks.

JOHNSON'S POV - THROUGH HELMET

His flashlight fans the heavy air checking the room.
Sedated monkeys in their cages.  Suddenly the dim light
from overhead begins to sway --

HE PANS HIS LIGHT UP TO:  BIG EYES IN THE SHADOWS

A fierce Green perches on the sprinkler pipes like a
gargoyle -- hissing at the humans.  Gnashing fangs, blood
running from it's eyes and nose.

JAXX STANDS UP IN VIEW

                         JAXX (FM MIC)
          Oh shit, I do not like this --

JAXX'S POV - THROUGH HELMET

It leaps SHRIEKING.  Right at us.  Eyes bulging wild.

JOHNSON PULLS HER TO THE DECK --

THE MONKEY SLAMS INTO THE CAGES --

Swinging wildly from one to another.

FOLLOW JAXX AND JOHNSON

Chasing it along the wall --

                         JOHNSON (FM MIC)
          We've got a loose one in "K."
          Somebody bring a net!

WITH JAXX - LOOKING AROUND

She lost it.  She turns.  The 4 foot tall thing SPRINGS AT
HER from the floor.

JAXX AND MONKEY - FACE TO FACE

Lunging, snapping at her.  Jaxx grabs it's arms and legs
blocking it's attack.  The infected monkey has become a
primordial beast, "raptor-like," a killing machine.

JOHNSON POKES it with his mop handle.  The thing sinks its
fangs into the handle and won't let go --

Johnson SLINGS the monkey -- THROUGH THE AIR --


INT.  CORRIDOR - CONTINUING ACTION

The monkey burst out the door sliding on the floor.  It
takes off running.

Jaxx and Johnson shove out of Room K giving chase.

                         JAXX (FM MIC)
          We got a contagious cyno headed for
          the Gray Zone!


INT.  GRAY ZONE CORRIDOR - MONKEY POV - RUNNING

He turns a corner heading right for the bleed tables.

GERRY ENTERS from the staging area.  He grabs a net
shouting a warning.

KLAGES TURNS grabbing a syringe.  The monkey rushes her --

KLAGES STABS with the syringe.  The monkey leaps --

IT RUNS RIGHT UP HER ARM AND RIGHT OVER HER HELMET --

-- Leaping on the Bleed Table -- dumping samples, knocking
over the blood vials, screeching at cadavers --

Gerry lunges at it with the net just missing --

THE STAGING ROOM DOOR SUDDENLY OPENS AGAIN --

Haines, the AIT Leader, looks in to check out the noise.
The monkey instantly LEAPS on the man.

THE MONKEY - JAWS OPEN WIDE - FANGS EXPOSED

IT CHOMPS DOWN HARD crunching completely through the AIT
Leader's hand.  Blood spews.

JAXX charges hard with Johnson and Gerry.

                         JAXX
          Get a Medic in here!

THE MONKEY ESCAPES through the staging room door.


INT.  STAGING ROOM - CONTINUING ACTION

As the Monkey enters; Johnson and Gerry right behind.

                         JOHNSON
          Door!!

Daylight.  AIT VOLUNTEERS carrying boxed monkey samples to
the Vans are in the way.  Gerry crashes into them.

MONKEY POV - RUNNING

The back door is open.  Daylight.  JOHNSON DIVES slamming
the door shut... Too late.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  ALLEYWAY - MONKEY POV - RUNNING

Like a shark attracted to the sounds of playing and
laughter, it zeros in on the Day Care Center.


EXT.  DAY CARE PLAYGROUND - CONTINUING ACTION

Kids suddenly stop playing on the swing.  More look up
from the sandbox.  A little boy giggles with delight.

                         LITTLE BOY
          Monkey!  Monkey!

THEIR POV - THE MONKEY

Bounding toward them.  Three SPACE PEOPLE in spacesuits
are chasing it.  With nets.

                         JAXX
          Get the children inside!  Run!  Get
          away!  Get away from it!

MONKEY POV - RUNNING

KIDS run away in all directions.  A TEACHER grabs two
TODDLERS screaming at the others to run.

THE JUNGLE GYM - CONTINUING ACTION

It heads right for it, scattering kids everywhere as it
scurries about the bars hissing and screeching --

THE MONKEY LEAPS - AIRBORNE

THE SANDBOX - CONTINUING ACTION

The monkey lands -- five feet away from a traumatized TWO
YEAR OLD GIRL.  She sits crying.  Too frightened to run.

TO JAXX - RUNNING

                         JAXX
          Please, no -- please --

SHE FLASHES TO:

Jamie sitting in the sandbox -- then Jason.

RESUME:  REALITY - THE MONKEY OPENS ITS JAWS WIDE

Raises to its full height -- four feet; big as a child.

JAXX LUNGES landing in the sand between child and beast --
her syringe in hand --

The Big Monk hisses -- and topples over dead...

TO JAXX:  in shock herself.  She tries to comfort the
frightened child, but holds back from touching her --

                         JAXX
          It's okay now.  Yes, yes,
          everything's alright -- it's okay --

The Day Care Teacher grabs the child up -- She glares down
at Jaxx with disdain.

                                            SHARP CUT TO:

ON TV - REESE AND C.J.

Talk to Reporters outside Fairfax Hospital.  Reese runs
the show playing down the day's events.

                         REESE (TV)
          The Army harvested the monkey colony
          as a precaution with the CDC's
          cooperation --

C.J. shoots angry looks at Reese trying to keep his cool.

                         REESE (TV)
          We have one worker who has close
          contact with the monkeys here in
          isolation but he hasn't been
          diagnosed with the virus yet --

                         REESE (TV)
          I can assure you the virus has been
          contained and there is no further
          danger of exposure to the public --

                                            SHARP CUT TO:

EXT.  USAMRIID - REAR ENTRANCE PARKING LOT - SUNDOWN

Doors kick open from the lead white van.

The SIX MAN AIR MEDICAL ISOLATOR TEAM jumps out carrying
the Vickers Isolator stretcher double time.  MAJ. HAINES
is visible inside.  His mangled hand bandaged and
bloodstained.


EXT.  USAMRIID - SIDE VIEW - CONTINUING ACTION

The Team sets the stretcher onto a steel track protruding
from a hatchway in the building wall.  The Lead Man opens
the outer hatch and bangs on the inner one.

THE ISOLATOR - VICTIM POV

We are inside looking over the victim's feet.  The inner
wall hatch opens.  The Team grabs both sides and shoves
the isolator on the tracks -- THROUGH THE WALL AND INTO:


INT.  THE SLAMMER - VICTIM POV - CONTINUING ACTION

A maximum containment (BL4) intensive care hospital room.
The isolator inserts inside another plastic chamber
surrounding a hospital bed.  Bright lights reflect through
the plastic isolator walls.

FIGURES IN BLUE SPACESUITS approach.  They insert their
arms through glove ports into the isolator.  With
precision, they drag Maj. Haines onto the hospital bed;
then shove the stretcher out the hatch and close it.

MAJ. HOSKINS, a female doctor, inspects the bandaged hand
while other hands cut away the man's clothes.

                         MAJ. HOSKINS (FM MIC)
          Let's get some antivirals in him.
          Ribovirin -- 40cc's -- 60
          Interferon --

DOCTORS hook I.V. bags of antivirals to the victim.  Maj.
Hoskins injects Haines with a sedative to calm him down.

INSIDE THE ISOLATOR - TIME SLOWS

The Spacesuit Doctors all move in eerie slow motion.  The
scene looks like a UFO Alien Abductee's nightmare.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  JAXX'S BACKYARD - THANKSGIVING DAY

A perfect fall day.  Crisp blue skies.  Last Autumn
leaves.

THE FACE OF JAMIE RUNS TOWARDS US IN SLOW MOTION

                                            CUT TO:

INTERCUT:  THE HOT SUITE - SAME TIME

WIDEN FROM:  Peter ceremoniously places his blood on the
electron microscope.  Tense, nervous.  This is it.

RESUME JAXX'S BACKYARD:  JOHNSON FADES BACK IN SLOW MOTION

Jason blitzes with Blackhawk.  Karl pumps and throws --

THE FOOTBALL SPIRALS THROUGH THE AIR --

INTERCUT:  THE HOT SUITE - PETER

Pumps his fist in triumph.  We follow him to the wall
calendar where he marks a big red "X" through "E" day.
Thanksgiving.  He made it.

SUPER:  THANKSGIVING DAY, 0930 HRS.

RESUME:  JAXX'S BACKYARD - PLAY IN PROGRESS

JAMIE FAKES and cuts around Gerry.  Gerry leaps tipping
the football -- RIGHT INTO JAMIE'S HANDS.  She runs.

C.J. can't catch her.  She's too fast -- he's out of
shape.  Jamie scores, throws an aerial and spikes the
ball.

ON THE SIDELINES - THE FANS ROAR

Nancy, with POPSY and MAMA, Gerry's parents, hoot and
holler from the deck.

Gumby, the Kinkajoo, turns one flip after another as it
scampers to Jamie and jumps in her arms.

INTERCUT:  EXT.  USAMRIID - SAME TIME

Peter exits jubilant, savoring the sun.  His WIFE, GAYLE
and TWO YOUNG DAUGHTERS descend on him from the car in a
massive group hug.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  JAXX'S HOUSE - LATER

Gerry opens the front door.  It's Peter and his family.

                         PETER
          Guess who's coming to dinner?

                         GERRY
          Hey -- everybody -- The guest of
          honor has arrived.

Gerry leads Peter, Gayle and his family into the den where
the gang is watching football on TV.

C.J. is up pumping Peter's hand, genuinely thrilled.

                         PETER
                  (quietly)
          I'm clean.  No big "E" --

                         C.J.
          Then this bug's for you -- I mean
          "Bud" --

Pete cracks up.  Jamie brings a tray of beers and picks up
empties.  Peter and C.J. clinks fresh cans and swig.

FOLLOW JAMIE; she shakes each can on the way back to the
kitchen.  Ah, a swallow.  She looks around and takes the
swig.  Not bad.  Not good either.

IN THE KITCHEN - SAME TIME

Jaxx checks the turkey in the oven.

                         JAXX
          Fifteen minutes everybody!

Gayle sticks her head in.  She theatrically wipes her
forehead and lets out a big "WHEW."  Jaxx stops what she's
doing and gives her a big hug.

IN THE MENAGERIE SUNPORCH - DAY

The Gang reacts loudly to the football game off in the
other part of the house.  Karl is alone in the room fixed
on the exotic birds.

Jaxx sticks her head in, then quietly enters.

                         JOHNSON
          Reminds me of the jungle.  Nice.

                         JAXX
          You don't have to feed them
          everyday.  Uh -- Pete's here.  Looks
          good.

                         JOHNSON
                  (not over
                   enthusiastic)
          I heard.

                         JAXX
          So?  Well?  Aren't you glad I forced
          you out of retirement?

He studies her as if trying to place her.

                         JOHNSON
          Maybe.  I'm just not so sure we
          dodged a bullet like Pete says.

                         JAXX
          Don't you ever shut down?  Relax?

She leads Karl by the hand firmly toward the kitchen.

                         JAXX
          The Decon Team's nuking the monkey
          house right now.  It'll be the only
          spot on the planet where not one
          living thing exists --

                         JOHNSON
          Okay, fine, but we did not
          quarantine the monkey handlers and
          the other employees.  Any one of
          them could be viral bombs walking
          around out there somewhere waiting
          to go off.

He gestures to the outside world.  Jaxx glares at him.

                         JAXX
          Oh -- Happy Thanksgiving --

IN THE KITCHEN - CONTINUING ACTION

Everybody's pitching in.  She squeezes Karl in between
C.J., Gerry, Jason and his Grandfather at the stove.

                         JAXX
          Put this guy to work before he
          broods to death.

                         GERRY
                  (to Karl)
          Halftime --

As if to explain their actions.  Peter slips a baggie on
each of Karl's hands and shoves them in a batter bowl.

The guys are balling hush puppies and dropping them in the
Sunbeam electric skillet.  Gerry throws a touchdown puppy
to Peter who feigns a slam dunk into the skillet.

THE SUNBEAM SKILLET - LOOKING DOWN

The Hushpuppy drops in the skillet and sizzles in oil.

                                            MATCH CUT TO:

ANOTHER SUNBEAM SKILLET - LOOKING DOWN

A Heat-suited DECON TEAMER drops a handful of "para-
formaldehyde" crystals into the skillet.  They sizzle.


INT.  MONKEY HOUSE - SAME TIME

The VIEW TRACKS ALONG 10 extension cords --

Each running the length of the "gray zone" -- one veers
off into each room.

WE TURN INTO:  ROOM F

It's completely barren and spotless.  The cord connects up
8 Sunbeam skillets.  All set to "high."  Formaldehyde
crystals fry -- PLUMES OF LETHAL GAS BILLOW UP --

IN ROOM H - CONTINUING ACTION

More skillets billow gas.  Moths drop to the floor dead.

Two Mice run from behind the monkey cages... and die.

GAS FUMES ENGULF THE ROOM AND OBLITERATE THE VIEW

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

A STEAMING TURKEY FLOATING THROUGH THE AIR

Cooked to perfection.


INT.  JAXX'S HOUSE - CONTINUING ACTION

Gerry parades the turkey through the house leading
everyone into the dining room.  Peter sets his beer can
down as he follows the crowd.

JAMIE MOVES INTO FRAME:  She picks Peter's can up with
some others.  It's not empty.  She takes a swig.  She
feels someone watching in mid-chug.  She turns --

TO JASON; watching her in mock brotherly shock.

Jamie comically CRUSHES the can in her hand indicating he
can expect the same treatment if he snitches.  Jason
laughs at her over-the-top-macho-girl act .


INT.  DINING ROOM - HIGH ANGLE - LOOKING DOWN

We hover like God above the table and feast.  Pure
Americana.  Everyone joins hands around.  Heads bowed.
Gerry's father says the blessing --

                         FATHER
          Let us pray -- We give thanks --
          this day, for family and friends --

THE PRAYER CONTINUES OVER:  INT.  RESTAURANT - SAME TIME

CHUCK REESE, his FAMILY and FRIENDS, gather round for
their own celebration.  The Waiter and Waitress delivering
the food and dressed as Pilgrims.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  GIRARD'S VA. HOME - SAME TIME      PRAYER CONTINUING

GIRARD bows his head with his WIFE, FAMILY and
GRANDCHILDREN around their table.

PUSH IN CLOSE ON GIRARD:  head bowed, eyes closed.  Ever
so slowly, a crimson stream of blood rolls from his nose
and trickles onto his plate.  He looks down startled --

GIRARD'S POV - HIS PLATE

He's bleeding into his mashed potatoes.  A steady drip-
drip-drip.  He grabs up his napkin, horrified.


INT.  ROADHOUSE - DAY                    PRAYER CONTINUING

A Redneck/Biker bar.  Dead animals decorate the walls.
TINY DANCES to the jukebox with a fresh beer.  He blows
the foam right at us in slow-motion --

-- spritzing the WHITE TRASH GIRL he's dancing and
smooching on.  She licks the foam off his chin.  She
steals his mug, dancing seductively, drinking his beer.

TINY - CLOSER

Watching the girl turn him on.  We see petechiae on his
cheek.  His eyes red.  A trickle of blood rolls from his
nose.  He wipes it off with the back of his hand unaware.


INT.  FAIRFAX HOSPITAL - SAME TIME       PRAYER CONTINUING

IN THE ISOLATION ROOM:  Deke, the Biker Monkey Handler,
looks worse.  A NURSE, wearing full barrier scrubs, gloves
and mask, places another anti-viral I.V. bag on his stand.

A WOMEN EIS officer observes.  SIRENS squeal O.S.


INT.  EMERGENCY ROOM - SAME TIME         PRAYER CONTINUING

Paramedics roll in LOC, the Vietnamese Monkey Handler.
The poor man is curled up with severe abdominal pains.

THE EXAMINATION ROOM - MINUTES LATER     PRAYER CONTINUING

Loc speaks in Vietnamese.  He's frightened.  A NURSE
cleans vomit from his face.

                         NURSE
          He's running a fever.  Hundred and
          one -- nausea --

                         DOCTOR
          He doesn't speak English, great.

The young DOCTOR on duty examines his distended lower
abdomen.  Loc winces in pain --

                         DOCTOR
          Right lower quadrant pain, rebound
          tenderness -- where's that
          bloodwork?

An orderly sticks his head in with chart --

                         ORDERLY
          This guy's white blood count's way
          up.  Acute shift to the left.
          Atypical lymphocytes --

Loc pleads in Vietnamese.  The young Doctor thinks hard --

                         DOCTOR
          Right.  Let's get his appendix
          out --


INT.  O.R. - MINUTES LATER               PRAYER CONTINUING

TIGHT ON SCALPEL:  The Doctor makes the incision in Loc's
lower bloated abdomen.  BLOOD spews under pressure from
the opening dousing the Doctor -- Ebola Blood.

WE HEAR:  "AMEN" --

                                            SHARP CUT TO:

INT.  JAXX'S DEN - DAY

Abrupt laughter as the Men smoke cigars and tell "war
stories."  C.J. scoffs at Peter's small scar on his palm.

                         C.J.
          Check this out --

He rolls up his sleeve and plops his arm on the table.  An
ugly jagged scar travels the length of his forearm.

                         PETER
          Oh right -- a virus did that?
          Must've been King Kong's.

                         C.J.
          A machete did that.  This Bolivian
          Chief thought the vaccine I was
          trying to give him was poison --
          Karl saved my cojones --

Laughter.  Karl chops the table like a machete.  C.J.
grabs his groin.  Karl is actually enjoying himself.

                         JOHNSON
          I made a deal.  The Chief would let
          me shoot him with the syringe --
          If --

He lets everybody hang for a second --

                         JOHNSON
          If I'd let him shoot me in the same
          spot with his blow gun.

                         GERRY
          Well -- where'd he shoot you?

Karl shys.  C.J. cajoles.  Everybody eggs him on.  Karl
stands up reluctantly undoing his trousers.

ON JAXX - AT THE KITCHEN DOOR

She cracks up with Gayle and Jamie.  Their laughter is
suddenly broken by C.J.'s BEEPER.  The piercing sound has
the effect of an air raid siren on the gathered.

A momentary hush -- C.J. just stares at it beeping.

The PHONE RINGS.  Jaxx grabs the cordless in the kitchen.

                         JAXX
          Jaxx's --

PUSH IN FAST:  Her horrified expression says it all.
Outbreak.

                                            SLAM CUT TO:

INT.  FAIRFAX HOSPITAL - DAY

A madhouse as C.J., Karl and Jaxx arrive.  Karl angers.

                         JOHNSON
          This is not good.  The virus could
          be walking outta here.  Where the
          hell is the CDC?  They should be
          here round the clock!

                         JAXX
                  (showing her ID)
          U.S. Army.  Which way to
          "isolation"?

A harassed ORDERLY points down the "yellow" hall.

THEIR POV - MOVING THROUGH CROWD

PATIENTS in a crush to sign themselves out argue with
distraught ADMINISTRATORS at the desk.

                         PATIENT #1
          I'm discharging myself.  I don't
          want to catch this thing --

A TV NEWS WOMEN hounds TWO SENIOR M.D.s who are "blown."

                         NEWS WOMAN
          How many cases do you have?  Do you
          know the virus is spreading?

                         SENIOR M.D.
          We haven't processed all the
          information yet.  The Health
          Department will make a statement --
          Excuse us --

They hurry away.  A SECURITY GUARD blocks the News Crew.


INT.  OFFICE - ISOLATION WARD

A young EIS Officer talks nervously on a cellular phone --
AS JOHNSON, JAXX AND C.J. BARGE in --

                         JOHNSON
          You've got a major panic outside
          Lieutenant.  Don't you think you
          should be out there taking charge?

Jaxx and C.J. flash military I.D.  The Officer is spooked.

                         EIS LT.
          I'm waiting for my superior officer.

                         JOHNSON
          Do you have an "index" case?
                  (blank look from Lt.)
          The person who spread the virus?

Jaxx and C.J. continue right into the Isolation ward.

                         EIS LT.
          Hey -- you're not authorized --
                  (frazzled to Johnson)
          This is only my second month in the
          field -- I'm --

                         JOHNSON
                  (with sincere
                   sympathy)
          -- just not ready for this.  I know.
          It's not your fault.

HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - MINUTES LATER

Doors bang open.  C.J. pushes Deke, the monkey handler, in
the Army isolator litter.  He looks bad.

Karl and Jaxx wheel Loc right behind in his isolator.  He
looks worse still recovering from surgery.

REESE APPROACHES from the other end with EIS OFFICERS, two
ADMINISTRATORS and two SECURITY GUARDS.  A standoff.

                         REESE
          Well, I'm not surprised to see you
          here, Karl.  You move fast.

                         JOHNSON
                  (controlling his
                   anger)
          Got to stay ahead of the pack.

                         C.J.
                  (intervening)
          Chuck, I'm using my authority to
          move these patients to the Slammer.
          We're better equipped.  You've got
          your hands full here.

Reese bristles.  His authority challenged in front of his
own people.  He checks Loc's chart.

                         JAXX
          E.R. opened him up for a crash
          appendectomy.  His peritoneal cavity
          was full of blood.  When they ran a
          check on him, they found out he
          worked at Synergy.  One O.R.'s
          contaminated -- so is the hospital
          lab.  A Doctor and two Nurses were
          exposed --

                         JOHNSON
                  (letting go)
          You should've quarantined them!

Karl and Reese; face to face --

                         REESE
          I'm quarantining the hospital.
                  (to his officers)
          Contain these people and these
          patients -- unless they're out of
          the building before I make the order
          official --

Jaxx, Karl and C.J. eye each other amazed.  Reese has
intentionally given them a chance to leave and save face.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  EMERGENCY ROOM - MINUTES LATER

Jaxx leads Karl and C.J. with their patients to a side
exit avoiding the panic.

                         JAXX
          C'mon.  This way --

                                            CUT TO:

THEIR POV - THE E.R.

Chaos.  TV CREWS are visible camped outside the entrance.
POLICE have arrived.  Inside, PEOPLE besiege the staff for
attention.

JAXX SEES GIRARD being wheeled in looking deathly pale.

REESE spots him from across the room.  Their eyes meet.

                         REESE
          Isolate that man immediately!

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  E.R. SIDE ENTRANCE - A MILITARY VAN

Backs to the ramp as Jaxx, Karl and C.J. roll out with the
patients.

The AIT TEAM jumps out and load the isolators.

THE HOSPITAL - WIDER

A CROWD has gathered.  Police run yellow tape across the
entrance.  TV Crews throw lights on the eerie scene.

FOLLOW THE VAN - ROARING OUT THE DRIVE

POLICE SET UP BARRICADES right behind them.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  PETER'S CAR - TRAVELING - DAY

An Ambulance blows by going the other way.  Peter
anxiously searches the radio for news.  The Kids pinch and
tease each other in the backseat adding to the racket.

                         GAYLE
                  (tense and worried)
          We're almost home.  You're making
          your father nervous --

TIGHT ON PETER

Wound up, scanning the radio for News.  Sweat beads break
on his forehead.  He pushes his glasses up on his nose.

HIS POV - THE ROAD

Traffic coming at them SUDDENLY BLURS -- then clears --

Gayle watches him closely.  Peter doesn't let on.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  PETER'S HOME - DAY

He pulls up in the driveway.  The kids unload.  His wife
gets out to follow -- Peter stays behind the wheel --

                         PETER
          Gayle?  I'm going back to the lab.
          They might need me --

Gayle stops cold.  She doesn't like this.

                         GAYLE
          Go on, kids.  Wash your hands.
          Pete?  Are you okay?

She moves toward his window to kiss him goodbye.  He waves
before she can get too close and backs out.

                         PETER
          I won't be long.  Promise --

PUSH IN CLOSE:  Gayle knows something is wrong.  Please,
God, no.  She wipes her brief tears so the kids won't see.


INT.  PETER'S CAR - TRAVELING - DAY

Petechiae begins to pop out on his face.  His tear dusts
bleed red.  He sweats feverish.  He fights to see the road
-- It's got him.  The bug is eating him --


EXT.  POST ENTRANCE - HIS POV - DAY

The Guard waves him through.  His vision blurs in and out.


INT.  SLAMMER CORRIDOR - DAY

Peter covers his mouth and waving people away.

                         MED. STAFFER

          Dr. Jahrling -- are you okay?


INT.  SLAMMER - POV THROUGH GLASS PARTITION

Jahrling.  He flops on the chair beside the isolator,
sticks a thermometer in his mouth, ties off his arm and
draws his own blood.

MAJ. HOSKINS enters in the blue spacesuit and takes over.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  WAR ROOM - DAY

The place is jumping.  Phones ring.  Staff shout over the
din.  TV monitors show News coverage on the "outbreak."

MONITOR #1:  A NEWS ANCHOR stands before a world map
tracing the path of the virus to the U.S.  Africa via the
Philippines.

                         NEWS ANCHOR (TV)
          The monkey's voyage brought them by
          plane from the Philippines, to
          Amsterdam to JFK's animal unit and
          finally to Virginia -- carrying
          deadly virus.  How the monkeys
          contracted the African Ebola virus,
          the Army and the CDC can only
          speculate... Please call this number
          if you have any of the symptoms --

SUPER:  1-800-555-VIRUS

MONITOR #2:  CNN coverage from the mob scene at Fairfax
Hospital.  A FEMALE ANCHOR grills the young EIS Officer.

                         EIS OFFICER (TV)
          We have five confirmed cases so far
          -- including three medical staff.

                         FEMALE ANCHOR (TV)
          What are their chances for survival?

No answer.  Awkward silence.

TO C.J.:  on his headset telephone barking orders --

                         C.J.
          I want Virginia Health Departments,
          Maryland and D.C. to get every
          patient in a fifty mile radius to be
          transferred here to RIID -- And all
          blood samples sent to us for
          immediate testing.  You heard me!

A STAFFER yells from the bank of phones.

                         STAFFER
          We've got a case reported in D.C.

C.J. sticks a pin on the map right in the capital.  He
locks eyes with General Russell.  "Holy shit."

                                            SHARP CUT TO:

INT.  SLAMMER - THE HATCHWAY - SAME TIME

AIT's shove Loc, the second Monkey Handler, through the
hatch into the Slammer.

AT THE PARTITION WINDOW - JAXX AND JOHNSON

Shocked to see PETER; his face peppered with hemorrhages.

                         JAXX
          Aw, Pete... I don't believe this is
          happening.

                         JOHNSON
          We could all be exposed --

Jaxx shivers at the thought.  PETER RAISES UP in bed
making eye contact with them.  Sadly, he mouths the words:

                         JAXX
                  (reading his lips)
          He wants me to call his family.
          Tell them he won't be home for
          dinner...
                  (she nods
                   affirmative)
          I copy, Pete.  Hang in there.

Pete understands.  He gives her "thumbs up" and sags back.


INT.  BL3 SUITE OFFICE - LATER

The fridge full of deadly viruses is visible through the
glass.  Jaxx sadly hangs up the phone.  Karl is with her.

                         JAXX
          The Slammer's already full and this
          thing is just getting started.
          C'mon, don't just stand there.  Get
          mad!  Say, "I told you so."

                         JOHNSON
          That's not going to save lives.  We
          both know none of the antivirals
          we've got is going to pull these
          people through.  They'll be soup in
          a week.  We need a super immuno
          serum to even have a chance to save
          anyone.  We need a survivor.

                         JAXX
          Well let's get one!  If we can pull
          Pete or any one of these patients
          through, the immunities in one
          person can save four more with their
          antibody serum.  Then sixteen and --

She fixes on Pete's guinea pigs through the glass.

                         JAXX
          Pete's got guinea pigs here that are
          immune to Ebola, a Supermonkey who's
          beat it.  I'll bleed these animals
          dry and spin off some immuno plasma.

She's on fire.  A heightened urgency to her every word --

                         JOHNSON
          You can't despeciate enough serum
          from those guinea pigs and mice to
          treat an epidemic!  We should've
          been stockpiling years ago.

                         JAXX
          Well, what the fuck would you do?
          Pete's dying in here -- !

                         JOHNSON
                  (frustrated)
          We need a "magic bullet."

Jaxx instantly understands.  She actually smiles --

THE REFRIGERATORS - CONTINUING ACTION

Jaxx pulls out 4 units from plasma storage and sets them
on the bench reverently.

                         JAXX
          Sister Genevieve.  The last four
          units you brought back from Africa.
          "Gold-plated" Ebola-eater.

Karl savors the container -- his long lost friend.

                         JAXX
          Let's give the last of Sister G. to
          Pete... There's a good chance the
          serum will give his immune system
          the boost he needs to beat the
          bug... We owe it to him.

He wipes a stray tear from her cheek.

                         JOHNSON
          Do it.  Try it.  Try everything.  I
          wish I'd had ten of you in Africa
          and Panama -- Bolivia -- India --

Jaxx doesn't know how to react to the compliment --

                         JOHNSON
          But this epidemic will be hopelessly
          out of control if we can't get the
          viral bombs off the street who're
          out there exposing innocent people.

Jaxx takes Sister G's plasma with grim resolve and heads
down the corridor.  From the back, we see her shoulders
shudder.  She's crying.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  SLAMMER - MINUTES LATER

Jaxx gives Peter the best she has to offer; she hooks one
of the last units of Sister Genevieve's convalescent Serum
to his I.V.  He forces a smile from his isolator.

                         PETER
          Hey, what flavor is that?  I ordered
          pistachio.

                         JAXX
          That stuff will rot your teeth.
          This is Sister "G."  Nothing but the
          best for you, Pete.

Pete is at a loss for words.  Jaxx won't let him speak.

                         JAXX
          The Good Sister would've wanted you
          to have it.  Get well.

She reaches in through the glove port and daubs the sweat
on his face.  Hemorrhages have popped out all over.

The intercom BUZZES breaking the moment.  More trouble.

Peter turns away in tears.  As Jaxx leaves.  PAN UP TO:
The last of Sister Genevieve drips slowly into Pete's
body.


INT.  WAR ROOM - MINUTES LATER

TIGHT ON FAX PICTURE OF:  TINY WHIPPERT

                         FEMALE EIS OFFICER (O.S.)
          We've got every other handler and
          employee in quarantine -- but we
          can't find him; "Timothy Whippert."

C.J., JAXX AND JOHNSON go over Tiny's personnel file with
the exhausted young FEMALE EIS OFFICER.

                         JAXX
          This is that handler who dumped
          those hot cadavers on us --

                         C.J.
          Checkout his blood test.

Johnson pours over the Titre chart in Tiny's file.

THE CHART - REACTIVITY OF MA-104 CELLS FROM ANTISERA

Three categories.  "Anti-Ebola," "Anti-Marburg," "Anti-
Simian HF."  "O" appears in everything but "Anti-Ebola."
It's got numbers.

                         JOHNSON
          Whoa.  High-titres.  Plus four, plus
          three, plus four -- Jesus he's
          crawling with Ebola anti-bodies.
          He's a bomb.

                         JAXX
          How long ago did he react?  Do we
          know?

                         C.J.
          EIS just found out he cut himself
          doing a necropsy on a hot cyno about
          two weeks ago.

                         JOHNSON
          If he's got symptoms, he is a
          walking lethal contagion, one.  And
          two, he's either dead, or almost
          dead by now -- or three -- He's
          immune --

Johnson turns to Jaxx -- She's almost afraid to say it.

                         JAXX
          Survivor --

Match in a haystack.  This is it -- the whole room
ignites.

                         FEMALE EIS OFFICER
          I made contact with his mother.  She
          said he'd gone to the mall to the
          movies.  Apparently, he's a 'Bruce
          Willis' die-hard fan.

                         C.J.
          Where?  What mall?  C'mon -- c'mon.

She points to a spot on the map.  Karl is hyper-alarmed.

                         JOHNSON
          Epidemic scenario.  Worst case.  A
          viral bomb roaming densely populated
          areas is more dangerous than a
          "serial killer."

Silence.  Then the room goes into action.

                         C.J.
          Let's bring him in.  And no Police!

                                            SLAM CUT TO:

EXT.  MALL - AFTERNOON - QUICK CUTS:  STATE POLICE CARS

Screeching to a halt in front of the Mall entrances.
TROOPERS pilling out and taking up positions at the doors.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  MALL - CINEMA ENTRANCE - SAME TIME

Jammed with holiday MOVIEGOERS, SHOPPERS and CRUISERS.


INT.  DARK THEATER - CONTINUING ACTION

INFRARED SURVEILLANCE POV - SCANNING THE CROWD

"Look Who's Talking" on the screen.  WE HEAR:  BRUCE
WILLIS cracking up the audience as the Baby.

WE SEE:  TEENAGERS kissing passionately on the back row.
Their tongues all over each other.

PAN TO:  A SYMPHONY OF PEOPLE COUGHING

Aerosol droplets glisten like snow in projector light.

TO JAXX - STANDING BACK

Scanning the crowd with an infrared night scope.  The
COUGHING AMPLIFIES, LOUDER, LOUDER, in Jaxx's mind.  She
finally covers her ears, it's so annoying.

THE MALL - OUTSIDE THE CINEMA - FOLLOW JOHNSON

Patrolling long "MOVIE" lines of PEOPLE spilling into the
main Mall.  "BACK TO THE FUTURE 2," "LITTLE MERMAID,"
"LOOK WHO'S TALKING," "MY LEFT FOOT."

He checks his Xerox of Tiny's photo, looking, searching.

HIS POV - PEOPLE IN SLOW MOTION

A virologist's nightmare.  Everywhere he looks he sees
germs spreading.  Two TEENAGERS sharing puffs on the same
cigarette.

Countless runny noses.  People COUGHING -- A COUGH BLASTS
in Karl's direction, he brushes his jacket off as if
Tarantulas were crawling on him.

A MAN AND WOMAN eat from the same popcorn box with their
two CHILDREN.  One child eats stray kernels off the floor
unobserved by his parents.  The other wipes her runny nose
with her bare hand then sticks the same "wet" hand in the
popcorn box.

SURVEILLANCE POV - MCDONALDS (JAXX POV)

FOUR FAST FOODERS eat with their hands.  All double dip
their french fries in the ketchup after each bite.

TO:  JAXX; Now on stakeout in the "food halls" area.  She
makes eye-contact with Karl and "thumbs" to the door.

TO POLICE:  Standing out like sore thumbs at the entrance.
They're wearing surgical gloves.  Several sport surgical
masks.  They cause a stir stopping SHOPPERS to show them
Tiny's picture for a reaction.

TO JOHNSON:  He's steamed.  Cops.  He mimes putting on
surgical gloves then blowing his brains out.  He looks
back to Jaxx -- His adrenalin starts to pump --

JAXX - TALKING TO A PIZZA MAN

The Man is nodding, absolutely sure, pointing to Tiny's
photo.  He turns and points to the public eating area.

JOHNSON"S POV - PANNING TO:

There's Tiny.  Sitting alone woofing down burgers in
overalls and hunting shirt.

JOHNSON WENDS through the tables, circling the big man.

JAXX CLOSES on the opposite side talking on a hand radio. 

THE FEMALE EIS OFFICER reacts on her radio and signals to
two other EIS OFFICERS through the crowd.  They close.

JOHNSON'S POV - MOVING CLOSER

He can almost reach out and tap the big man's shoulder.

TWO POLICE suddenly spot Tiny from the other side and head
right toward him through the tables.

TINY spots them, bolts up and heads into the crowd --

JOHNSON hurries after him pushing through people.

MALL HALLWAY - CONTINUING ACTION

Tiny is now running bulling his way through the crowd.

The Police in hot pursuit.  Johnson runs trying to get
between Tiny and the Police --

                         POLICE
          Stop right there!  Stop!  Freeze it!

ON TINY - BACK TO CAMERA

He reaches inside his overalls as if to draw a gun --

THE POLICE - GUNS COME OUT

                         POLICE
          Clear!  Get outta the way!

People hit the deck.  JOHNSON BULLS PAST the Police --

JAXX FIGHTS her way through the fleeing crowd --

TO TINY - HE STOPS RUNNING

-- and turns struggling to pull his hand out --

POLICEMAN'S POV - GUN AIMED

Johnson is in his line of fire -- Suddenly JAXX ENTERS
frame disarming the Cop with her self-defense wrist lock.

                         JAXX
          His blood could be more lethal than
          your gun -- Jerk -- stupid --

KARL GRABS TINY'S HAND and slams him into a merchant's
cart of cheese and smoked sausages.  The Big Man goes down
taking the cart with him.

JAXX AND POLICE rush up with the female EIS officer.

The Big Man on the floor pulls a handful of stolen CD's
from inside his overalls.  It's not Tiny.

                         BIG MAN
          Take'em.  Here.  That's all I got.
          I swear.  Jesus -- I peed in my
          pants.

Karl pulls himself up frustrated -- angry.  Jaxx helps
him --

                         JAXX
          Karl -- ?

                         JOHNSON
          Ah, I can get up by myself.
                  (to Female EIS
                   Officer)
          Do your job, Lieutenant.  You're the
          epidemic police.  Check him out --

People part.  Jaxx leads Johnson away.  A Policeman slaps
cuffs on the Big Man.

                         EIS OFFICER
          Are you on medication?

The Big Man shakes "no" as they lead him away.

                         EIS OFFICER
          Have you been bitten or scratched by
          a wild animal?
                  (another "no" and a
                   laugh)
          Have you experienced any unusual
          symptoms in the last 24 hours.

Now the Big Man looks at his captors suspiciously; Police
in surgical gloves.  Some with masks.

                         BIG MAN
          Hey -- what is this?  Y'all think I
          was ebb-ducted in a UFO, don't cha?

The Crowd laughs.  The young EIS Officer is embarrassed.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  RUNDOWN HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Karl knocks on the door again.

                         JOHNSON
          Mrs. Whippert we just want to ask
          you some questions about your son.
          We're not the police.

Jaxx starts to speak.  Then a frightened voice inside --

                         MRS. WHIPPERT
                  (through door)
          I toll those other people who was
          here earlier where he was.

                         JOHNSON
          Mrs. Whippert, he's not at the
          movies -- so why don't you help us?

They both eye the several racks of deer antlers nailed
haphazardly on the porch posts.

                         JOHNSON
          I'm a sportsman too, M'am.  Fishing.
          Your son's a hunter I see --

Silence.  He looks to Jaxx.  They're warm, Jaxx adds a
"mother's concern."

                         JAXX
          M'am, I know you're scared, but just
          understand, your son may be very
          sick.  As a mother myself, I know
          you really want to help him.

A beat.  The door slowly opens.  Tiny's MOTHER peers out.
Drink in one hand.  Cigarette in the other.  Frightened.

                         MRS. WHIPPERT
          Well, he toll me not to say nothin'
          to nobody when he callt yesterday.
          He went a huntin'.  He's on up at
          his cabin...

Jaxx and Karl trade glances.  "He's alive"!

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  WAR ROOM - AFTERNOON

C.J. hangs up the phone.

                         C.J.
          We got it!  Subject was still
          kicking as of yesterday --

He moves to the wall map.  Two DEPUTY AIDES join him.  He
puts a pin in the map.

                         C.J.
          The cabin is about seventy-five
          miles up the Savage River from here.
          Get me topos and recons of this area
          down to the square foot --

Staff get on the phones.

PUSH IN TIGHT ON THE MAP:  The pin is in the southeast
corner of West Virginia.  Names like Black Rock Canyon,
Big Run and Backbone Mountain appear --


INT.  SLAMMER - SAME TIME

TWO AIDES in spacesuits wheel Deke's covered body by.


INT.  MORGUE - LIMBO

The monkey handler's lifeless face frozen in horrible
agony, skin disintegrating, disappears as gloved hands zip
the body bag over him.  The body slides into the rack.
The big submarine door closes.  Gloved hands crank it
shut.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  HELIPAD - LATE AFTERNOON

Karl is loading a field isolator into a Huey with an AIT
Team.  Inflatable rubber rafts follow.

A government vehicle drives right across the open field
-- lights flashing.


INT.  CAR - MOVING POV - HELICOPTER IN VIEW

The Driver stops.  Chuck Reese gets out and faces Karl in
the flashing lights.  Johnson is hardly glad to see him.

                         JOHNSON
          We lost the first monkey handler.
          First Ebola victim on U.S. soil.

Awkward silence.

                         REESE
          Let me go with you.

Karl squints at him suspiciously.

                         REESE
          Karl, look, we've quarantined
          seventeen people this guy may have
          exposed.  I should have done it your
          way.  I... stayed behind in Africa
          all those years ago.  In a way, I
          guess I stayed behind ever since...
          Not this time.

                         KARL
          Better to be at the epicenter doing
          something about it -- ?

                         REESE
          Beats catching it in the Men's room
          at the Burger King --

Karl's piercing stare morphs to a grin.  He picks up one
end of a field container, Reese the other.  He's going.


INT.  SLAMMER AREA - MINUTES LATER

Jaxx passes the Post Clinic.  She slows looking in the
waiting room window --

HER POV - CLINIC WAITING ROOM

Tiny's Mother is there waiting to have her blood tested.
A Vietnamese family (Loc's); a mother and four small
children, a couple of Biker types -- the room is filled
with potential exposures.

In the corner, Jaxx sees the little Girl from the sandbox
in the arms of her very frightened young Mother.

CLOSER - JAXX

It hits her.  Her own home.  Her own family.  Nobody's
safe.


INT.  JAXX'S OFFICE - SAME TIME

She rushes in and answers the ringing phone.

                         JAXX
                  (on phone)
          Oh, Gerry.  I was just going to call
          you.  It's been so --

She pales.  Something's wrong.  She sits down hard --

                         JAXX
                  (on phone)
          Jamie?  Oh my God.  Hundred and
          three?  When did the bleeding start?

                                            CUT TO:

INTERCUT:  JAXX KITCHEN - SAME TIME

Gerry looks spooked.  Jason broods at the glass doors.
Blackhawk whines knowing something is wrong.

                         GERRY
                  (on phone)
          Doctor Levin came over and gave her
          some antibiotics.  "A touch of the
          flu," he said, "A 24 hour virus."

TO JAXX

                         JAXX
                  (on phone)
          Doctors always say that!  "It's the
          flu.  Comeback next week."

TO GERRY

                         GERRY
                  (on phone)
          Nance, we have to assume it's Ebola.

Jaxx is an emotional minefield on the other end.

                         GERRY
                  (on phone)
          I don't know.  Thanksgiving -- when
          Pete was here somehow.  We may all
          be incubating the goddamn thing --

TO JAXX - JAMIES PICTURE IN VIEW

                         GERRY (V.O.) (PHONE)
          Get out here quick --

She hangs up.  Her world crashing in.  She sobs.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  HELIPAD - LATE AFTERNOON

Karl and Jaxx face each other.  Karl is shocked.  The Huey
engine begins to whine.

                         JAXX
          If she's got it.  Jamie has about
          seven days to live.  I'll find an
          anti-serum that works if I have to
          squeeze it out of my own veins --

Karl embraces her holding her tight.

                         JOHNSON
          Go get your daughter, Colonel.

JOHNSON AND JAXX - COPTER IN B.G.

He salutes her and boards the Huey.  Rotors rev up.

THE HELIPAD - WIDER

C.J. leads Jaxx clear as the Huey lifts off and climbs
banking toward the mountains in the distance.

INSIDE HUEY - JAXX IN THE FADING LIGHT BELOW

Karl watches her getting smaller and smaller.

                                            CUT TO BLACK.

FADE IN:

THE JAXX HOME - JAMIE'S BEDROOM - SUNDOWN

Gerry and their Family M.D., DR. LEVIN, tend Jamie who is
burning up with fever.  Both wear surgical masks.  Gerry
carefully draws her blood --

                         DR. LEVIN
          I can't treat her here, Gerry.  We
          have to move her to the hospital --

                         GERRY
                  (wits end)
          Don't you think I know that.

Gerry watches his daughter suffering.  He finally agrees.

                         GERRY
          Make them understand she needs
          complete and total isolation.

Suddenly the THUD of a helicopter approaches outside.

IN THE MENAGERIE ROOM - CONTINUING ACTION

The THROBBING intensifies.  The animals go crazy.  Jason
runs outside with Blackhawk.


EXT.  JAXX'S BACKYARD - CONTINUING ACTION

A Rescue Copter lands on the hill up behind the house.

JAXX CLIMBS OUT with 3 AIT's carrying an isolator
stretcher.

Jason has never been so glad to see anybody in his life.

                         JASON
          All right, Mom!  Yes!

She hugs him on the run trying to hold it together.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  JAXX'S - CONTINUING ACTION

Popsy holds the door open as Jaxx and the Team enter.

                         JAXX
          Popsy -- are you and Mama okay?

He nods weakly.  Mama sets food on the table --

                         TEAM LEADER
          Sorry, M'am.  We can't, but thank
          you.

They follow Jaxx to Jamie's room.


INT.  JAMIE'S ROOM - CONTINUING ACTION

Jaxx nearly breaks when she sees her daughter lying there
so still -- as if she's dead.

Gerry braces her up.  Jaxx buries her head for a moment in
his shoulder.  Then --

                         JAXX
          Let's go for a ride, Princess.

The Team gently slides Jamie into the stretcher.

                         JAMIE
                  (her voice faint,
                   weak)
          Mom -- all I did was sip some beer
          -- don't be mad -- Am I going to
          die?

Gerry and Jaxx trade quietly desperate looks.

                         JAXX
          No way.  You have to win the
          Olympics.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  JAXX'S HOUSE - CONTINUING ACTION

They load Jamie into the Copter along with Jason.  Gerry
has to coax his parents.

                         GERRY
          You have to come too.  You could
          have been exposed.  I can't leave
          you here --

Popsy and Mama look at each other in fear.  Then Popsy
takes Mama's hand and helps her into the Copter.

HIGH ANGLE - LOOKING DOWN

The Huey lifts off right at us.

                                            MATCH CUT TO:

EXT.  APPALACHIANS - AERIAL VIEW - SUNDOWN

Flying upriver on Johnson's copter through a canyon
twenty-five feet above the river.  Just like Africa --

INSIDE JOHNSON'S COPTER - FLYING UPRIVER

He's transfixed on the rushing water glimmering in the
dying sun.  SOUNDS OF AFRICA swell.  Going upriver again.

                         PILOT
          Sir -- front's moving in.  Snow
          expected.  Be dark soon.

                         JOHNSON
                  (snapping from his
                   trance)
          We have to find that cabin tonight.
          How much longer --

                         PILOT
          Ten minutes to the hot zone --

Reese hands Johnson a cup of coffee.

                         REESE
          This is a long shot, Karl.  Even by
          your standards.

                         JOHNSON
          So was Ebola ever crossing the
          Atlantic, remember?

Reese nods Karl's kudos.  Karl pulls out Tiny's photo.

                         JOHNSON
          Pete's a long shot to survive.  So
          is everybody else that shows
          symptoms.  This guy was exposed
          weeks ago with the other handlers
          before everyone else -- He threw
          antibodies and was still alive two
          days ago -- after his partner
          checked into the morgue.  That's a
          good sign.  We'd be irresponsible
          not to go after him.

                         REESE
          Well -- too bad you never found that
          lost tribe in Africa you used to
          lecture us about -- You know -- the
          ones who passed down immunities over
          the generations to just about every
          virus emerging.
                  (half-joking)
          You could be back home fishing right
          now -- and we'd have all the immuno
          anti-sera we need.

                         JOHNSON
          I tell you what -- I would kiss that
          tribe member's ass on the fifty yard
          line at the Super Bowl if they'd
          just walk out of the jungle right
          now.

Johnson toasts his coffee to Reese's.  They laugh in much
needed release.

                         PILOT
          Sir -- coming up on the zone --

HELICOPTER POV - FLYING - LOOKING FORWARD

The Pilot turns on floodlights as they rise up from the
river up-up-up a steep rugged cliff wall --

There it is.  A small cabin on a cliff overlooking the
river and mountains.  Tiny's funky green Van is parked
beside it.  The van doors stand open.

ON JOHNSON

                         JOHNSON
          Looks deserted.  Get in closer.

THE FLOODLIGHT PASSES OVER:

A Deer... hanging from a tree branch -- horribly
dismembered and strewn about.  Entrails and Blood are
splattered all over the Van and the cabin.

ON JOHNSON - CLOSER

                         JOHNSON
          The guy's lost it.  Dementia.

The DRUMS OF AFRICA beat louder in Karl's head.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  CABIN - COPTER HOVERING IN VIEW    DRUMS CONTINUING

Suddenly an Assault rifle opens up on the Copter.  Tiny
stumbles out the front door firing wildly.

TINY - CLOSER                            DRUMS CONTINUING

His face is pocked with hemorrhages.  Blood is caked
around his nose and mouth.

                         TINY
          Leave me alone you fuckers!  I know
          why you come.  I'm dying right here
          -- right fucking here!!

THE CABIN - WIDER                        DRUMS CONTINUING

As Tiny rakes the trees wildly -- hitting the Copter.

THE COPTER - CONTINUING ACTION           DRUMS CONTINUING

The Pilot dives down the canyon fighting the controls.

                                            SMASH CUT TO:

INT.  SLAMMER - NIGHT

JAMIE IS SHOVED THROUGH THE WALL INTO THE SLAMMER.

The isolator rockets toward us with a metallic crunch.

                         JAMIE
                  (freaked)
          Mom?  Where are my Mom and Dad?

Maj. Hoskins calms her through the isolator.

                         MAJ. HOSKINS
          They're coming Jamie.  Let's get you
          comfortable.

Hoskins and her Aide use the arm ports to take Jamie's
vitals and hook her up to I.V.'s.

NOTE:  since she's in the isolator, MDs wear masks gloves,
etc., not spacesuits.

SCREAMS and RAVINGS suddenly echo O.S.  Hoskins slams the
inner door to keep Jamie from hearing.

                                            CUT TO:

FOLLOW HOSKINS THROUGH THE SLAMMER TO:  THE HOT SIDE

Maj. Haines screams in dementia next to Peter.

TWO AIDES in spacesuits wheel Loc's covered body out
causing Haines to lose it completely.

TWO DOCTORS in Spacesuits try to subdue him in his open
bed.  He trashes yanking at his I.V.'s.

                         MAJ. HAINES
          Get this shit offa me --

Hoskins aims a tranquilizer gun and shoots him with a
tranq dart.


INT.  MORGUE - LIMBO

Loc's covered body is slid into the rack beside Deke's
body bag.  The second death.  The submarine door closes.

                                            CUT TO:

RESUME:  THE SLAMMER - JAMIE'S SIDE - SECONDS LATER

Jaxx enters.  She strokes her daughter with her hands in
the glove ports.  Jamie squeezes them through the plastic.

                         JAXX
          I'm here, Jamie.  I'm here.

                         JAMIE
          Where's Dad... and Jason?

                         JAXX
          Dad's with Jason and Popsy and Mama
          just down the hall.  They're having
          their blood tested.  We're going to
          take some of yours too.  Check it
          out.  You might not be sick at all.

Jamie smiles faintly.  Maj. Hoskins ties off Jamie's arm
through the glove ports and thumps up a vein.

                         JAMIE
          Mom... this is the "slammer" isn't
          it?  I heard you talk about it.

Jaxx nods.  She can't stand to see Jamie suffer.  She
holds Jamie's hand -- the needle enters her arm.  Jamie
cries out.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  SAVAGE RIVER ISLAND - NIGHT

Full winter moon.  The AIT's have pitched camp around the
Copter.  The Pilot works on the engine under generator
lights.  Bullet hits are visible across the cockpit glass.


INT.  HELICOPTER - ON JOHNSON

                         JOHNSON
                  (on radio)
          C'mon, C.J., I don't want Rangers
          and State Police up here guns
          blazing.  I need this guy alive.

Reese listens intently trying to stay warm.

                         JOHNSON
                  (on radio)
          He's no good to us with a bullet in
          his head.  We'll never know if his
          antibodies can beat the bug or not.
          Okay -- tell them he's contagious.
          That'll buy some time.
                  (a response on radio)
          Yeah, I should've brought my fishing
          tackle.  How's Nancy's kid.  Any
          word -- ?

                                            CUT TO:

MICROSCOPIC VIEW - JAMIE'S BLOOD

It glows with Ebola antigen response.


INT.  BL3 HOTSUITE - CONTINUING ACTION - NIGHT

Jaxx sits back from the microscope, trembling.  She sags,
dropping her head on the bench.  She weeps openly.


INT.  SLAMMER - TIGHT ON PETER - LATER

Pete's face tells us this is a horrible way to go.  Jaxx
looks on with loving eyes.  She feels helpless.

                         PETER
          Lousy room service.  And what
          happened to the sexy nurses we used
          to have around here --

Jaxx strikes a pose.  His laugh is like sandpaper.  He's
dying and knows it.

                         PETER
          Listen to me.  I want you to give
          the rest of my old friend to Jamie.
          She's young.  The antibodies might
          turn her around.

Jaxx doesn't know what to say.  She can barely speak.

                         PETER
          Hey, maybe I'm the "magic bullet,"
          Nance.  Go on, take it.  Give Jamie
          a fighting chance.  I got work to do
          in the lab, anyway --

He unplugs his I.V. from the precious serum and sits up --
Nancy has to subdue him.  Maj. Hoskins hurries in to help.

TO JAMIE - GERRY IN VIEW

Jamie.  Her face a mask.  Comatose.  Gerry checks her
temperature.  Jaxx enters.  She's been crying.

                         GERRY
                  (back to Jaxx)
          No break in her fever.  Ribovirin's
          not working.  Efficacy is zero...
          Her fever's still up.  We need
          immuno serum, Nance.  None of the
          patients are responding...

Jaxx regards their daughter.  She makes herself do it.

                         JAXX
          Peter wants her to have this.

She unhooks the antiviral I.V. bag and replaces it with a
serum bag marked "Sister G."

                         GERRY
                  (dumbfounded)
          Peter's better?  His fever broke?

Jaxx shakes her head slowly.  Gerry reacts, overcome.  He
holds Nancy close, both gazing at their daughter.  Small
hemorrhages mar her youthful face.

                         JAXX
          What's Jamie's --

                         GERRY
          One-o-three.  Just checked it.

                         JAXX
          Take it every thirty minutes.  If
          there's any drop, I don't care how
          slight, we'll know the serum's
          working.  She'll pull out.  She
          will.

TIGHT ON PLASMA BAG:  GIVING LIFE INTO JAMIE

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  SAVAGE RIVER - THE DARK BEFORE DAWN

Karl sits hunched by river fire drinking coffee.  Everyone
else still sleeps.  He's fixed on the campfire.

THE FLAMES - DANCING

The sounds of Africa haunts him.  Drums pound relentlessly
-- He looks up, suddenly startled.

FLASH TO:  HIS POV - THE AFRICAN JUNGLE

A beautiful AFRICAN WOMAN walks out of the bush.  She
kneels across the fire from him.

She hands Karl a gourd brimming with healing waters.  He
reaches for it -- FLAMES SINGE HIS FINGERS.

He jerks back, looking around, disoriented.

HIS POV - PANNING AROUND

The river.  Sun coming up.  Reese is staring at him.

                         REESE
          Karl?  Are you alright, Karl?

                         JOHNSON
                  (rattled)
          Yeah, I'm alright.


EXT.  RIVERBANK - DAWN

The AIT's put in the raft, holding it steady in the
backwater.  Karl and Reese board.

Onshore, the Pilot holds up his 9mm pistol.  An offer.

                         JOHNSON
          I don't believe in guns as an
          equalizer.  Nature's full of
          equalizers more deadly...

They shove off.  The AIT Leader in front, Reese in the
middle and Karl at the stern.

ON THE RIVER - FOLLOW THE RAFT

Karl steers them into the rapids.  They move swiftly
downriver.

JOHNSON - CLOSER

Watching high cliffs and dense woods slide by.

FLASH TO:  THE EBOLA RIVER

Karl crossing on the raft.  Zairean Police aiming guns.

FLASH TO:  THE HOSPITAL

His fingers sinking into a dead man's arm like pudding.

Village children singing to the Nuns.

Sister Genevieve convulsing in his arms.

RESUME:  JOHNSON

He shivers, near convulsing.  Another river to cross.

                                            CUT TO:

THE MORGUE - LIMBO

Another body bag slides in beside six other bodies.  The
tag reads:  MAJ. ARNOLD HAINES.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  WAR ROOM

A TV MONITOR:  The Local ANCHORWOMAN standing outside RIID
interviews C.J. by phone inside.  He's running on fumes.

The Staff watches him and the monitor.

                         ANCHORWOMAN (TV)
          How many deaths so far, Colonel?

                         C.J.
          We can confirm seven as a direct
          result of the virus -- including
          employees at the primate
          facility... and one of our own.

C.J. CONTINUES OVER:  INT.  SLAMMER AREA - SAME TIME

Corridor beds are now filled.  30 PATIENTS are tended by
MEDICAL STAFF AND VOLUNTEERS wearing Scrubs, masks, decon
suits, anything to protect against possible infection.

                         C.J. (V.O.) (TV)
          We're continuing to bring all
          "cases" and exposed persons here to
          RIID.  We'll try to contain the
          virus here until it burns itself out
          -- We're still trying to find a
          rescue therapy that's effective
          against the virus --

AIT's wheel in Girard in an isolator.  He's almost gone.


INT.  USAMRIID CLINIC - SAME TIME

Peter's Wife sleeps on a sofa with her two children.
Others rest on chairs or the floor.

Jaxx checks a patient who looks good.  Eyes clear.
Minimal symptoms.  It's the Big Black Woman from Synergy.

                         JAXX
                  (to nurse)
          Check her blood again.  Maybe she
          has the "magic bullet" antibodies.

The Black Woman smiles hopeful.  Jaxx looks past her out
the glass partition into the Slammer area.

HER POV - THE SLAMMER AREA

A Medic covers up another victim.

Jaxx thinks that could easily be Jamie... Gerry hurries
up.  Jaxx instantly panics --

                         GERRY
          Her temperature's down.  One-o-one.

Jaxx.  Her panic rockets to joy -- Gerry half carries her
down the hall -- both euphoric.

THE SLAMMER - TIGHT ON SERUM BAG

The last of Sister "G" plasma drips into Jamie's I.V.

Jaxx reaches in the glove ports and wipes a trace of blood
from Jamie's ear.

                         JAXX
          She's responding.  It's working.
          Human immuno serum protocol works.

                         GERRY
          And we're fresh out -- Goddamn bug!

Gerry folds her into him.  They share a frustrated cry --

                         JAXX
          Why can't I just put my life in her
          I.V.  Why...?

They hold each other tight, praying for a miracle.  Gerry
ceremoniously pulls a stuffed bear from a bag of
personals.

                         GERRY
          Nancy... when she was two years old
          -- but she used to want "Dee Dah"
          the Bear when she was sick.

Jaxx kisses the bear and tucks it in beside Jamie.  Jamie
instinctively hugs it to her.  She wakes staring at them.

                         JAMIE
          Mom... I'm sorry I said bad things
          about guinea pigs -- and mice.  I
          know you're just trying to make me
          well --

Jamie drifts off.  Jaxx wells up.  She suddenly heads away
-- filled with Jamie's words.  Gerry follows --

FOLLOW THEM THROUGH THE AIRLOCK

                         JAXX
          The animals -- Pete's working on
          synthetic antibodies -- He's growing
          living immune animal cells and
          living human cells together -- to
          clone a super immune cell.  So far
          guinea pig cells don't work.  I just
          had an idea -- that might --

                                            CUT TO:

THE SLAMMER ENTRANCE - CONTINUING ACTION

Gerry catches her as they exit.

                         JAXX
          We can mass produce antibody serum
          for any bug.  It would be just like
          having Sister Genevieve alive again
          -- donating her blood.  There's a
          way --

                         GERRY
          Nancy -- that's all theory.  Lab
          trials.  Nothing solid.  It could
          take months to get results.

Gerry holds her trying to calm her down.  She fights him.

                         JAXX
          This is not just about our Jamie
          anymore.  If we -- can't save her,
          if we lose her, think about the
          lives we can save in a month or a
          year --

Jaxx is choking back her tears, knowing what she's saying
but keeping her duty to humanity always above all.

                         GERRY
          You'll do the right thing by Jamie.
          You always do the right thing.

She breaks.  The airlock door hisses closed behind her.
She hesitates at the port -- then disappears.

RESUME - TV MONITOR

                         ANCHORWOMAN
          One last question, Col. Peters; Is
          the the virus airborne?

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  BACKBONE MOUNTAINS - DAWN

HAWK'S POV - DESCENDING TO THE RIVER BELOW

Tiny's cabin comes into view on the bluff.  It's snowing
lightly.  The Raft.  Karl motions.  They turn into the
bank.  Reese jumps out pulling them ashore.

ONSHORE - FOOT OF THE CLIFF

Each Man shoulders a pack of medical gear.  They begin the
ascent up a steep trail.  The AIT Leader talks softly on
his radio as they climb --

                         AIT LEADER
                  (on radio)
          Bird dog -- we made dry land.

                         RADIO RESPONSE (V.O.)
          Police are enroute on fire road.
          ETA forty-five minutes.  Half-it for
          their Rescue Chopper -- over.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  TOP OF THE BLUFF - LATER

Reese pulls himself up over the bluff rim.

REESE'S POV - A MOUNTAIN LION

In his face.  Fangs bared.  Reese flails back -- pulling
Karl with him.

KARL GRABS REESE'S HAND -- stopping each other's fall.

THEIR POV - THE MOUNTAIN LION

It's been dead for hours.  Wedged in the rocks.  Reese
checks it for wounds.

                         REESE
          No bullet entries.  No arrow wounds.

Karl wipes the blood caked around its nose on a swab, them
from its mouth.  He seals it in a baggie.

                         JOHNSON
          Maybe the virus just jumped
          species... again.

THE BLUFF - LOOKING DOWN

The AIT LEADER climbs up beside them eyeing the dead
animal.  Each grabs a respirator off his utility belt and
slips it on.


EXT.  CABIN - DAWN

No movement.  The Team chuck their equipment in the trees.

                         JOHNSON
          Hello!

Nothing.  He raises his respirator.

                         JOHNSON
          Hello!  Mr. Whippert!  I'm a Doctor.
          Do you need medical attention?!

No response.

                         AIT LEADER
          Maybe he's gone... or dead...

Karl stands to approach the house.  Reese pulls him back.

TINY FIRES wildly from the window raking the trees --

-- FILLETING the ground all around them --

ROCK MOUND - THEY DIVE FOR COVER

Rounds rip the rocks.  Karl looks at Reese and grins.

                         JOHNSON
          He's alive.  That's a good sign.

Reese looks at him like he's nuts.

                         REESE
          You are certifiable --

                         JOHNSON
                  (peeking at the
                   house)
          We'll see.  Shuck me a syringe.
          Load it with a 100cc's of "ketamine."

Another look from Reese as he opens his pack --

                         REESE
          You're going to anesthetize him?

                         JOHNSON
          Sounds good to me.  Just got to get
          close enough.

Reese looks at the AIT Leader.  Now he knows Karl's crazy.

                         AIT LEADER
          Doc, we should wait for the Cops.

MOVE WITH JOHNSON - CABIN IN VIEW

He crawls along the rocks talking a bluestreak.

                         JOHNSON
          Mr. Whippert!  We have medicine --
          and a helicopter that can fly you to
          a hospital.
                  (no response)
          How long have you been sick?  You
          know -- when did you get your first
          headache?  Fever -- ?

THEIR POV - THE CABIN

No answer.  Reese tosses Karl a pack of two syringes.
Karl signals to the AIT to split up making tough targets.

WITH JOHNSON - RUNNING ONE WAY

Tiny fires wildly.

WITH AIT LEADER - RUNNING THE OTHER WAY

The ground fillets around him.  A round rips into his leg.
He goes down screaming.

JOHNSON DIVES behind a stack of firewood as bullets chew
up the pile --

THE CABIN - WIDER

Silence... Reese makes his way to the wounded man.

TO JOHNSON - BEHIND THE WOODPILE

                         JOHNSON
          No, no, no, no, no!  The Police are
          coming and if you start shooting
          you'll be dead.  I don't want you to
          die right now.  I want you to get
          well...
                  (a beat)
          Now -- how long have you been sick?

ON THE CABIN - JOHNSON IN VIEW

                         TINY (O.S.) (INSIDE CABIN)
          More'n a week... I think -- Can't
          'member anymore -- Sorry...

His voice is weak.  Strained.  Karl crawls toward the
Van.

                         JOHNSON
          Good.  Maybe you're getting better.
          Let me come in.  Check you out.

HIS POV - THE CABIN DOOR

                         TINY (O.S.) (INSIDE CABIN)
          No fuckin' way!  If the heat come,
          I'll shoot'em too.

He fires wildly from the window.  Then clicks no ammo.

TO REESE:  Dressing the AIT Leader's leg wound.

TO JOHNSON:  Reaching the van.  The passenger door is
open.  Karl checks it out.  Keys?  Yes.

                         JOHNSON
          I know how you feel, Tiny.  I can
          help you.  Walk out now, while
          there's still time.

THE CABIN - VAN IN VIEW

Tiny answers with more gunfire.  Karl turns on the engine,
the car radio and releases the emergency brake.  Country
and Western blares.

THE VAN - ROLLING TOWARD THE CABIN

KARL RUNS behind it using it for cover --

TINY RAKES the front of the Van.  A wheel hits a rock
jolting it off line -- The Van rolls past the cabin --

KARL DIVES on the porch rolling to safety --

THE VAN RUNS RIGHT OFF THE BLUFF

Crashing into the River below in a fiery explosion --


EXT.  RIVER ISLAND SITE - EXPLOSION IN VIEW

The AIT's go into action.  They're not waiting any longer.
Helicopter engine whines up --

RESUME:  CABIN - FRONT VIEW

Reese can't see Karl anywhere from his vantage point.
Tiny is yelling inside, demented, delirious.

THE CABIN - REARVIEW

Karl edges toward the back door, he primes his syringe,
pumping himself up for the charge.

A BALL OF FLAME ERUPTS inside.  Gasoline EXPLODES.

FLAMES BILLOW out the windows.

KARL reels back from the blast.

REESE covers the AIT Leader.

WITH KARL

The rage builds in him erupting in a primal scream.  He
rushes headlong crashing through the back door --

THROUGH THE FLAMES:  JOHNSON'S POV - SLOW MOTION

We're in the cabin.  Flames swirl about Tiny.  He's weak
-- leaning against a post, gun dangling in his hand.  He
turns to us.  His face hideous in the flames.  His clothes
catch fire.  He hurls a flaming gas can right at us --

KARL CHARGES tackling the big man sending them crashing --

OUT THE FRONT DOOR - A BURST OF FLAMES AND SPARKS

The two Men crash to the ground.

THE CABIN - FRONT VIEW - CONTINUING ACTION

Karl pounds out the flames on Tiny's body.

                         JOHNSON
          Don't you die on me!  Don't you
          dare!  Live Goddamnit.  I need a
          survivor -- damn you -- live!

He dumps his respirator -- he desperately checks the big
man's vital signs.  Reese runs up with the medical bag.

THE HUEY SWOOPS UP over the bluff and lands.  AIT's jump
out bringing more gear and the isolator.

Two AIT's spray fire extinguishers on the burning cabin.

TO TINY AND KARL

Tiny is not responding to CPR.  Karl pumps air into his
mouth.  Nothing.

Karl rips open his shirt -- his body is covered with
hemorrhages and skin ruptures.

                         JOHNSON
          You're not dying on me, Tiny.  C'mon
          you son-of-a-bitch --

Reese hands him a big needle.  He shoots the adrenalin
right in Tiny's heart.  Nothing.  He pounds the man's
chest.  Reese pulls him back pinning him.

                         REESE
          He's gone.  He's dead...

Karl, angry at himself and the world, holds it all in.  He
closes Tiny's eyes.

                         AIT (O.S.)
          Hey!  Over here --

Reese looks up, stunned by what he sees.  He grabs Karl.

WHAT THEY SEE:  AN APPARITION - JUST LIKE KARL'S DREAM

A GIRL walks out of the flaming smoldering Cabin.  Tiny's
white trash girlfriend from the Roadhouse.  She's dazed,
suffering from smoke inhalation, alive.  A survivor.

                         JOHNSON
          Now that is a genuine miracle.

Karl approaches her.  She reaches out both hands and
collapses.  He catches her laying her down.

THE POLICE HELICOPTER ARRIVES HOVERING OVERHEAD

                         VOICE (P.A.)
          This is the Virginia State Police.
          Clear the burning area --

Karl pays no attention checking the girl's vitals.  More
Police and Rangers arrive up the fire road in the b.g.

ON THE CABIN - WIDER

Rangers join the effort to put out the fire.  AIT's meet
the Police keeping them away from potential contagion.

WITH KARL AND THE GIRL

Reese gives her oxygen.  Karl injects her with antivirals.
He checks her arms and neck for hemorrhages.  No
petechiae.

                         JOHNSON
          No symptoms.  Maybe she's
          incubating.

He finds a small patch of symptomatic rash on her back.

                         REESE
          She's got the bug.

                         JOHNSON
          Yeah, so?  For how long?  A week?  A
          day?  What's her temperature?

                         REESE
                  (shocked)
          Ninety-nine.  She's almost normal.
          She should be roasting if he
          infected her in the last week.

                         JOHNSON
                  (incredulous)
          Unless... she's a survivor.
          Unless... she's immune.

Karl looks at the girl.  Traumatized but her pulse is
normal.

                         JOHNSON
          We have to get her back to RIID.
          Now!  Move!

                                            TIME CUT TO:

EXT.  THE CABIN BLUFF - MINUTES LATER

The Huey lifts off leaving the Police and Rangers below
dousing the fire.

INSIDE THE COPTER - FLYING

Tiny's body bag lays on the floor.  Reese draws blood from
the Girl in the isolator.  She is delirious.

                         GIRL
          Tim?  Where's Tim?  Have to take
          care of him.  He's so sick --

                         JOHNSON
                  (floored, realizing)
          She was no hostage.  She liked the
          poor guy.

Karl clamps a field centrifuge onto a seat back and begins
cranking.  The blood sacks spin --

                                            MATCH CUT TO:

OUTSIDE - THE ROTORS SPIN

They fly straight into the morning sun.

                                            SHARP CUT TO:

INT.  MORGUE - MORNING

Another corpse slides in the rack.  It's Girard.  There is
no more room for bodies.


INT.  SLAMMER - MORNING

Jamie.  Her arm covered with petechiae.  The rest of her
body is under the sheets.  We don't want to see it.


INT.  PETER'S BL3 LAB - SAME TIME

Jaxx, dark circles under her eyes, exhausted, studies a
cell culture in the monitor attached to her microscope.

                         JAXX
          Grow.  C'mon -- grow.  Maybe the CDR
          grafting didn't take.

She turns to another monitor showing a complicated cell
structure turning in 3D graphics.  The heading reads:
"RECOMBINANT IG MOLECULES - MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES."

She rotates the diagram with key commands.  She looks up.

Someone enters the lab in a spacesuit.  The figure moves
closer.  It's Peter.  Weak and frail, but he's there.

                         JAXX
          Pete -- what are you doing -- ?

                         PETER
          Hey, I'm beating this thing, okay.  I
          feel good --

He does a wobbly James Brown in his spacesuit.  Jaxx is
blown away he's even walking.

                         PETER
          The irony of it all.  I wore this
          thing for years to keep the bugs
          out.  Now I'm wearing it to keep
          them in.

                         JAXX
          Pete?  Your fever broke?

                         PETER
          Fever?  What fever?  Hey?  You
          trying to take credit for my work?
          "Synthetic generation of human
          antibodies by combination with super
          immune animal cells" by Peter
          Jahrling...

Jaxx eyes him suspiciously.  He studies the monitor.

                         PETER
          I've been grafting high immunity
          guinea pig cells to human myeloma
          cells, but the fusion hybridoma
          immortalizes only a few B cells.
          Low antibody production.  Useless
          against a mother-bug like Ebola.

                         JAXX
          I used Supermonk's IG genes.

                         PETER
          I'm impressed.  Better gene match
          with humans.

                         JAXX
          The immunoglobulins won't clone.
          It's not working.

                         PETER
          Here's your problem.  Change the
          binding site.  Splice the genes here
          and hope it grows up to be the Holy
          Grail.

Peter makes some adjustments to the computer generated
cell diagram.

Jaxx looks at the screen in awe.  The two cells form one
super immune cell.  (Computer graphic).

                         JAXX
          You're a genius, Pete.  Let's get
          you back to the slammer.

He resists her, hugging the stool, barely able to focus.

                         PETER
          No, I have to finish this.  If the
          human cells you're using are strong
          and healthy, this just might work.
          Whose are they?

                         JAXX
          Mine.

Peter looks at her through his helmet, he smiles --

                         PETER
          Well, I'd say if your daughter has
          any of the stuff her mother's made
          of -- her children and her
          grandchildren will be born immune --

Jaxx wells up at the hope he's given her.  Hope.  A final
tear of blood trickles from his eye.

                         JAXX
          C'mon -- let's get you back to...
          the... slammer... Pete?  Pete!

No answer.  Pete lumps over in his bluesuit -- and dies.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  USAMRIID - DAY

Armed Soldiers in gas masks surround the RIID building.
Bradley Tanks block the roads in and out at Checkpoints.
Media trucks line the parking lot.

A NETWORK ANCHOR - ON CAMERA

                         NETWORK ANCHOR
          An estimated 47 exposed persons are
          being housed inside the RIID
          fortress, which is now completely
          quarantined and cut off from the
          outside world except by telephone.

TO ANOTHER ANCHOR - ON CAMERA - INSIDE HOSPITAL TENT

                         ANOTHER ANCHOR
          11 deaths have now been reported
          since the outbreak began three days
          ago.  This tent ward behind me is
          for overflow cases the CDC and the
          U.S. Medical Corps hope never come.

The Anchor walks us through the hospital tent that has
been erected on the parade grounds.  ARMY MEDICAL CORPS
MEN AND WOMEN are setting up rows of field cots.

The THUD of a helicopter approaches.  Everyone looks up.


EXT.  RIID HELIPAD - DAY

The Huey lands beside the building.  The AIT's hurry the
stretcher bearing the Girl toward the wall hatch.

FOLLOW KARL AND REESE - RUNNING

Toward the guarded main entrance carrying blood vials and
dangling the makeshift plasma bags on a coat hanger.

Soldiers challenge.

                         SOLDIER
          Sir, no one is allowed in without
          authorization --

                         JOHNSON
          There are people dying in there, I'm
          going to try and save them.

He never breaks stride; the same phrase he said to the
soldiers in Zaire.

C.J. opens the door waving them in --

                         C.J.
          Let'em in.  C'mon.  What the hell
          have you been doing -- fishing?


INT.  RIID - CONTINUING ACTION

WE FOLLOW THEM through the maze of beds and patients
lining the corridors.  Karl carries the bags of serum like
the Holy Grail.  Doctors look up.  Staff step aside.


INT.  SLAMMER - CONTINUING ACTION

Karl enters the Slammer Airlock and barrels past Maj.
Hoskins -- Reese hangs back with C.J.

WE FOLLOW KARL through the chem shower into --

THE SLAMMER - GOD'S POV - LOOKING DOWN ON JAMIE

Hovering, waiting to take her next.  Both parents hold her
hands through the glove ports.

They are strangely not surprised to see Karl.  He stops
short at the sight of Jamie.

                         GERRY
          We're losing her, Karl.

He shoves the plasma bags at Gerry.

                         JOHNSON
          Put her on this.  Tiny bought the
          farm.  This is from his girlfriend.
          Reese spun the plasma phoresis in
          the chopper -- Check it for
          antibodies.  I think she's immune.
          I think she's the "magic bullet."

They look at each other -- vaporlock.  Gerry grabs the
bags.

                         GERRY
          I'll screen it.  Just don't let
          Jamie die.

He runs out shouting for C.J.  Karl hovers over Jamie --
hoping he's not too late.

                         JAXX
                  (finding her voice)
          Pete had a breakthrough.  He did it.
          We can crank out Ebola immune cell
          antibodies in a few weeks --

Jaxx is all nerve endings watching Jamie.

                         JOHNSON
          That's not fast enough.  Let's get
          Pete on this new plasma too.

He can tell by her reaction, Pete's dead.  He bows his
head saying a silent goodbye.  Then grabs Jaxx --

SLAMMER CORRIDOR - CONTINUING ACTION

Karl drags Jaxx into the last room --

                         JOHNSON
          It's the only chance Jamie or any of
          us have got.  Meet the donor.

Maj. Hoskins tends the Girl.  She's sitting up in the
isolator, completely alert -- a thermometer in her mouth.
She glares at Karl.

                         MAJ. HOSKINS
          Her temperature is normal, Doctor.
          Pulse stable.

                         THE GIRL
          Hey, where's Tim?  What is this
          place?  Anybody got a cigarette?

Karl shakes his head no.  Jaxx checks her chart in shock.

                         JAXX
          What's your name?

                         THE GIRL
          "Angel."

Jaxx looks to Karl.  What else --

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  WAR ROOM - LATER

C.J. is on a phone hookup to CNN.  TV's show all networks.

                         C.J.
                  (on phone)
          If we hold out another 24 hours with
          no new cases, then our strategy to
          contain the outbreak has promise.
          We hope to have a synthetic antibody
          serum with strong efficacy in a few
          days.

ON THE MONITOR - CNN

                         CNN ANCHOR (TV)
          We all recognize the enormous risk
          CDC and Military personnel are
          taking by being in that building.
          Colonel -- will all the viruses and
          exposed patients inside with you, is
          there a danger of a virus escaping
          and infecting the entire community?

                         C.J.
                  (on phone)
          Only if it walks out in one of us.


INT.  SLAMMER - GOD'S POV - DESCENDS TO TAKE JAMIE   

Karl takes her blood pressure.  Blood oozes around the
arm-strap.

                         JAXX
          I don't want Jason to see her like
          this --

Gerry burst in --

                         GERRY
          She's clean.  No "hep."  HIV's
          negative.  And -- she's loaded with
          antibodies!

                         JOHNSON
                  (continuing the
                   thought)
          But -- "Angel" has minimal
          symptoms --

                         JAXX
                  (finishing it)
          -- then Karl's right.  She must be
          immune.

The whole slammer is buzzing.  Gerry looks to Jaxx for a
decision.  Jaxx hooks the desperation plasma up herself.

GOD'S POV - DESCENDS LOWER - CLOSER

Jaxx gets right beside Jamie as close as the plastic will
allow.  She whispers, determined not to give up.

                         JAXX
          You listen to me Jamie Magritte
          Jaxx, God gave you an immune system
          to fight disease with -- so fight.
          Don't think about anything else but
          living.  You want to do a triple
          twist -- live, Jamie, live.  You
          want to go to the Olympics don't
          you?

She strokes Jamie's face through the glove port.  Gerry is
right beside her.  Karl leans into view on the other side.

                         GERRY
          Kick this bug in the ass.  Never,
          never, never, never give up -- If
          you live, your blood can save
          another and another.

                         JOHNSON
          It's a privilege we've forgotten as
          humans, Jamie.  We can save each
          other.

WE PUSH IN TIGHT ON THE PLASMA BAG - "ANGEL"

QUICK CUTS:  MONTAGE OF THE MAGIC BULLET

Hoskins, Medical Staff, Jaxx, Johnson, Gerry all pitching
in to hook up other ailing patients to the serum.  Faces
we have seen; the Black Woman from Synergy, Loc's
Vietnamese Wife.  Everyone pitches in.

Jason pushes a cart of I.V.'s.  Gayle, Pete's grieving
Wife shows up beside Jaxx.  She wants to help.  Klages and
Godwin are there with C.J. --

TIGHT ON PLASMA BAGS - ONE AFTER ANOTHER

All bear her one word name; "ANGEL."  Each bubbling life.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

IN THE SLAMMER - THE VIGIL - MULTIPLE DISSOLVES

As one by one, the Team enters the Slammer through the
airlock, exhausted, shedding tears, hopeful, holding onto
each other -- all connected as they embrace Jaxx and Gerry
and encircle Jamie in the isolator -- willing her to live.

THE VIEW GLIDES TO JAMIE - "ANGEL" I.V. IN VIEW

Feverish, staring into nothing.  Suddenly her eyes focus.
A heavenly smile crosses her face.  She takes her parent's
hands squeezing them tight --

                                            SHARP CUT TO:

A WATERFALL CRASHES ONTO ROCKS BELOW - WIDEN TO:


EXT.  THE BIGHORN RIVER - DAY

It's Spring.  Karl and Jaxx sit on the bank reflecting.
Jaxx -- her head buried on her knees.  We can't tell what
shape she's in.  Karl gives her a convalescent squeeze.

                         JOHNSON
          On a day like this, we can pretend
          nature is benign -- and all the
          monsters and beasts in nature have
          their kinder moments.

Jaxx looks up.  Quietly crying.

                         JAXX
          I didn't think it'd be this hard.

                         JOHNSON
                  (wiping her tears)
          You have to get over it.  The wheel
          of life goes on, Nance.

                         JAXX
          I just see her lying there.  I don't
          know how I'll ever be able to -- to
          thank you and not start crying --

He laughs.  Now we here more laughter coming from the
river.  Then a familiar voice --

                         JAMIE (O.S.)
          Mom -- look, Mom -- wahooo!

PAN TO:  THE RIVER

There in the middle of the beautiful Big Horn is Beautiful
Jamie, full of life and joy.  She's caught a Rainbow trout
and is reeling it in.  She's alive.

Gerry fishes with her.  Jason wades upstream to net it.

                         GERRY
          Whoa -- must be a record catch --

                         JASON
          -- for a "fisher-babe"!

Brother and Sister again.  And Dad trying to moderate.

KARL AND JAXX - HOOTING FROM THE BANK

                         JAXX
                  (musing sadly)
          I wish Peter was here to share this.

                         JOHNSON
          Without his discovery, and Angel's
          precious blood.  We might not be
          here either.  Her synthesized
          antibodies saved a lot of lives.  He
          died a hero.  You should share a
          little credit too -- Colonel.

                         JAXX
          Naw -- Pete lived long enough to
          show me the way.  It's his legacy.

Jaxx lays back taking in the beauty around them.

THEIR POV - THE RIVER

Gerry helps Jamie set the fish free.

                         JAXX
          Are we ready for the next one?

                         JOHNSON
          We weren't ready for this one.  This
          was a wakeup call.  We're just one
          international plane flight away from
          extinction.

Jaxx sits up on that one staring at him.  What?

                         JOHNSON
          Sure.  Say a tourist gets an unknown
          airborne virus in an African village
          in the morning, flies home that day,
          smoking, coughing -- sneezing.
          Aerosol droplets get circulated by
          the air vents -- so by the time you
          land, everyone onboard's been
          exposed.  Passengers walk through
          customs right back home exposing
          families, cabbies, friends.  Over
          night thousands are exposed.  Then
          the outbreak.  Slate wiper...

Silence.  The sounds of nature abound.  Jaxx is riveted.

                         JOHNSON
                  (inevitable)
          Pretty soon us two-legged dinosaurs
          are history.

                         JAXX
          Mother nature's revenge... God, I'll
          never fly again... Why not go back
          to Africa and find the viruses
          before they find us, huh?

                         JOHNSON
          I never should have left.

                         JAXX
          You better teach me to fish quick,
          because that's where you're going.

Jaxx jumps up, brushing herself off.  Karl gets up --

                         JOHNSON
          What're you talking about?

                         JAXX
          You raised so much hell, the CDC and
          the Army are joint funding a new
          research lab in the bush to find the
          reservoirs for Ebola, Marburg, AIDS,
          new bugs -- maybe some ancestors of
          some lost tribe I seem to recall you
          mentioning.

She marches into the river with her fly rod.

                         JAXX
                  (calling back)
          That is -- if you're interested.

Karl is speechless for the first time in his life.  He
grabs his favorite fishing hat -- rod -- big shiny grin --
and follows her into the river.

THE BIG HORN - HIGH ANGLE

This is how we leave them.  The Jaxx family and Karl
Johnson fishing the Big Horn --

THE VIEW CLIMBS TO:  AN AERIAL VIEW OF THE VALLEY

Teeming with biological life, gleaming in the sun,
threading like spaghetti through a geography of terrains.
Like the cellscape we opened our story on -- we finish
on --

Watching the river run...


SUPER:  THE FOLLOWING LEGENDS

1.  To date the origin or reservoir of the Ebola virus is
    still unknown; there is still no vaccine for Ebola and
    no proven cure.

2.  The CDC levied fines against Synergy and three other
    primate companies and banned the shipment of monkeys
    into the United States for 18 months.

3.  No virus was found at the JFK animal unit where the
    monkeys entered the U.S.  The Philippine exporter
    would not allow a CDC/Army Team to inspect their
    animal quarantine unit.

4.  Monkeys with the Ebola virus were reported in primate
    quarantine units in Texas and Pennsylvania during the
    Reston outbreak.

5.  Nancy and Gerry Jaxx are both acting Colonels of
    Veterinary Medicine at USAMRIID and are actively
    involved in vaccine and viral research... including
    Ebola.

6.  Peter Jahrling is alive and well and Head of Virology
    at USAMRIID.  He continues his research on synthetic
    antibodies and is currently in South America isolating
    a new virus.

7.  C.J. Peters is now head of Special Pathogens at CDC in
    Atlanta.  He is currently in command of the CDC's
    efforts to control the spread of the Hantavirus
    outbreak in this country.

8.  Karl Johnson lives in Montana with his wife Merle near
    the Gallatin River.  Karl isolated the Ebola virus in
    1976, and the Hantavirus the same year.  If he isn't
    fishing, then Karl is currently consulting with C.J.
    Peters and the CDC on the Hantavirus outbreak in the
    U.S. that is still talking human lives as of this
    writing.

                                            FADE OUT.

                         THE END




