



Joe Versus the Volcano (1990) movie script - Screenplays for You















Screenplays for You - free movie scripts and screenplays                    





About


Links









Screenplays, movie scripts and transcripts organized alphabetically:


#
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

PDF


ALL



Joe Versus the Volcano (1990)by John Patrick Shanley.Revised draft, 08/25/89.More info about this movie on IMDb.comFOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY 






GREY SCREEN

The TITLE appears in white letters -

	 JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO

MUSIC.  Borodin's "Polovtsian Dances," Chicago Symphony
Orchestra, begins to play.  The stormy part.

The CREDITS ROLL.

The credits have that depressing, shitty, this is going
to be one of those lousy black and white movies from the
1950s look.  This is going to be one of those cheap teen
sci-fi movies about a creature

MUSIC.  When the female star's name appears, Borodin's
theme, which will later become adapted into "Strangers In
Paradise," plays.  Then we return to the stormy part,
which subsides as:

The CREDITS END.

The following LEGEND appears on the field of grey:

		"You only live twice.
		Once when you're born,
		Once when you look death in the face."

				    -- James Bond

The LEGEND remains, but the field of grey turns to a rich
texture of solid gold.

MUSIC.  "The Girl From Ipanema," sung by the likes of Tom
Waits, sung like it was the Downest blues song anybody
ever croaked out just before the final curtain.  The
MUSIC starts as the field turns from grey to gold.  The
MUSIC PLAYS ON.


1	 EXT. AMERICAN PANASCOPE CORPORATION - DAY			   1

We're in color now, but it's a grey world.  It's an ugly
building about the size of a city block and a couple of
stories high.  It's surrounded by hurricane fence topped
with barbed wire.  Outside the fence is a muddy parking
lot.  On the fence is a sign that reads:

	AMERICAN PANASCOPE CORP.

		a subsidiary of

			ACHI

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 1A.

1	 CONTINUED:									    1

The sign also has an abstract logo; a sort've German
Expressionist's version of a lightning bolt.  Another
sign reads:

	HOME OF THE RECTAL PROBE

It's a grey winter's morning.  It's raining or snowing or
it just has or it's about to.  There's a guard at a gate
nodding workers inside the fence.  They trail listlessly
past him and continue on their way to the building's
entrance.  Most of them carry or are using grey or black
umbrellas.  Since they are coming from the parking lot,
and since the entrance to the building is still almost a
city block away once inside the fence, this straggling
line of workers stretches hundreds of yards.  Some of the
workers wear hats.

We see the line of workers FROM HIGH OVERHEAD

The line is in the same shape as the lightning bolt logo.

One of these workers is JOE BANKS.  Joe is in his early
thirties.  He's wearing a beat-up black trench coat;
under the trench coat he's got on a cheap and square
jacket and tie.  This is a depressed man.  You can see
where he could be cool, where he could have something on
the ball.  But he's way too beaten down and depressed to
be cool.  Joe steps in a puddle.  He pulls his shoe out
of the water.  He notices the sole is coming loose from
the shoe.  This depresses him further.  He walks on.  The
sound of the WATER SQUISHING in his shoe can be heard.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 1/15/89			  2.


2	 INT. PANASCOPE BUILDING - DAY						2

Joe is shuffling down the main walk in the building.  On
his left are doors leading to offices.  On his right is
the factory, which has the feel of an airplane hangar.
The factory is separated from the walk on which Joe
progresses by a heavy wire fence twelve feet high.  Joe
passes by a sign on this fence that says "Shipping." This
area is filled with thousands of brown cardboard boxes; a
shipping clerk among these boxes pulls a lever on a
device; the device spews out several feet of wet brown
tape.  Joe continues on.  He passes a sign on the fence
that says "Canteen."  This area contains a row of vending
machines and two long tables; a guy who looks like he's
going to die is sitting at one of the tables eating pink
Hostess snowballs; he eats them in a slow, dismal way, as
if they were giant sleeping pills.  Joe continues on.  He
passes a sign on the fence that says "Quality Control."
This is the biggest area; it's filled with workers in
shower caps and worn white jackets; they work a distance
apart from each other, at long tables; they are
inspecting terrifying medical instruments.  One of these
workers, a middle-aged woman named Sally, attaches a
catheter to an air pump.  The catheter inflates and
finally explodes.  Sally seems satisfied.  Joe continues
on, his shoe distantly SQUISHING.  He stops at one of the
office doors on his left. The lettering on the door
reads:

	 ADVERTISING DEPARTMENT

Joe opens the door and goes in.  The SONG ENDS.


3	 INT. ADVERTISING DEPARTMENT - DAY					 3

The place is lit with those totally draining, deadening
fluorescent lights.  DEDE, a secretary in her late
twenties, is sitting at her desk, typing.  She's pretty,
maybe a little hard.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			  3.

3	 CONTINUED:									    3

She types like an automatic weapon.  Her makeup doesn't
really work under these lights.  She nods briefly to Joe,
and goes on with her typing.  Joe tries to hang up his
hat, but it keeps falling off the hook.  He is endlessly
patient.  It's the sound of the typewriter that makes him
miss.  At last he succeeds.  Behind Dede, at a bigger
desk, is MR. WATURI.  He's leaning back in an executive
chair, talking on the phone.  He's middle-aged, olive
skinned, in a dark suit that shows up his significant
dandruff.  His teeth are yellow as rancid butter.  And
there's enough grease shining on his forehead to coat a
skillet.  He's talking into the phone.

			  WATURI
	Yeah, Harry, but can he do the
	job?  I know he can get the
	job, but can he do the job?
	I'm not arguing that with you.
	I'm not arguing that with you.
	I'm not arguing that with you

Mr. Waturi waves absently at Joe and goes on talking into
the phone.

			  WATURI
	Who told you that?  No.  I
	told you that.  Me.  What?
	Maybe. Maybe.  Maybe.

Joe hangs up his coat on the coat rack and goes to the
coffee set-up at the rear of the office.  He snaps a
disposable plastic coffee cup into a permanent plastic
holder.  He puts a spoonful of instant coffee in the cup.
Then a spoonful of powdered creamer.  Then two spoonfuls
of sugar.  He takes a plastic stirrer and stirs the
powders.  He pours in the hot water and stirs.  Little
clumps of undissolved stuff rise to the top.  Joe tries
to break them up with the stirrer and partially succeeds.
He feels the glands in his throat.  Maybe they're a
little swollen.  He rubs his eyes.  They're burning a
little.  He takes his coffee and walks past Mr. Waturi
and into his own office.


4	 INT. ADVERTISING LIBRARY - JOE'S OFFICE - DAY		    4

The same fluorescent lighting.  There's a small wooden
desk which has on it an old electric typewriter and an
out-of-place lamp; it's a lamp Joe brought from home. The
rest of the office is almost entirely taken up with grey
industrial shelving.  On these shelves are brochures
depicting various medical instruments.  Samples of each
brochure are taped to the appropriate shelf.  Behind
Joe's desk is a pipe that runs floor-to-ceiling and is
painted fire-engine red.
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - 5/16/89				  4.

4	 CONTINUED:									    4

In the center of this pipe is a big wheel valve.  Hanging
from this valve is a printed metal sign.

The sign reads:  THE MAIN DRAIN.  Another sign reads: Do
Not Touch.  Joe turns on the lamp, which casts a small
ring of golden light, and sits down with his coffee.  He
takes off his shoe and examines it.  He tries to huddle
close to the lamp, like a cold creature trying to get
warm.  Dede comes in.

			  JOE
	Good morning, Dede.

			  DEDE
	Hi, Joe.  What's with the
	shoe?

			  JOE
	I'm losing my sole.

			  DEDE
	Yeah. How you doin'?

			  JOE
	I'm a little tired.

			  DEDE
	Yeah.
		  (she hands him some
		  labels)
	Here.  Each one gets sent five
	catalogs.

			  JOE
	Can't do it.

			  DEDE
	Why not?

			  JOE
	I only got twelve catalogs
	left altogether.

			  DEDE
	Okay.

She leaves.  Joe puts his shoe back on.  Mr. Waturi comes
in.  Joe cowers.  He's threatened by Mr. Waturi.

			  WATURI
	How you doin', Joe?

			  JOE
	Well, I'm not feeling very
	good, Mr. Waturi.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			A4A.

4	 CONTINUED:   (A1A)								 4

Mr. Waturi chuckles.
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 1/15/89			 4A.

4	 CONTINUED:  (1A)								   4

			  WATURI
	So what else is new? You never
	feel good.

			  JOE
	Yeah. Well. That's the
	problem. Anyway, I got the
	doctor's appointment today.

							    (CONTINUED)
									 5.

4	 CONTINUED:  (2)								    4

			  WATURI
	Another doctor's appointment?

			  JOE
	Yeah.

			  WATURI
	Listen, Joe.  What's this Dede
	tells me about the catalogs?

			  JOE
	I've only got twelve.

			  WATURI
	How'd you let us get down to
	twelve?

			  JOE
	I told you.

			  WATURI
	When?

			  JOE
	Three weeks ago.  Then two
	weeks ago.

			  WATURI
	Did you tell me last week?

			  JOE
	No.

			  WATURI
	Why not?

			  JOE
	I don't know.  I thought you
	knew.

			  WATURI
	Not good enough, Joe!  Not
	nearly good enough!  I put you
	in charge of the entire
	advertising library...

			  JOE
	You mean, this room.

			  WATURI
	I gave you carte blanche how
	to deal with the materials in
	here...

							    (CONTINUED)
									 6.

4	 CONTINUED:  (3)								    4

			  JOE
	You put the orders into the
	printer, Mr. Waturi, not me.
	That's how you wanted it.

			  WATURI
	You're not competent to put
	the orders into the printer!
	That's a very technical...

			  JOE
	I thought you were going to
	explain it to me.

			  WATURI
	I was going to do better than
	that.  I was going to make you
	assistant manager.  I want to
	make you assistant manager.
	But you, you're not flexible!
	You're inflexible.

			  JOE
	I don't feel inflexible.

			  WATURI
	You're inflexible.  Totally.
	And this doctor appointment!
	You're always going to the
	doctor!

			  JOE
	I don't feel good.

			  WATURI
	So what!  Do you think I feel
	good?  Nobody feels good.
	After childhood, it's a fact
	of life.  I feel rotten.  So
	what?  I don't let it bother
	me.  I don't let it interfere
	with my job.

			  JOE
	What do you want from me, Mr.
	Waturi?

			  WATURI
	You're like a child.  What's
	this lamp for?  Isn't there
	enough light in here?

			  JOE
	These fluorescent lights
	affect me.  They make me feel
	blotchy, puffy.  I thought
	this light would...

							    (CONTINUED)
									 7.

4	 CONTINUED: (4)									4

			  WATURI
	Get rid of the light.  This
	isn't your bedroom, this is an
	office. Maybe if you start
	treating this like a job
	instead of some kind of
	welfare hospital, you'll shape
	up. And I want those catalogs.

			  JOE
	Then please order them.

			  WATURI
	Watch yourself, Joe.  Think
	about what I've said.  You've
	gotta get yourself into a
	flexible frame or you're no
	place.

He starts to leave, but stops and looks back.

			  WATURI
	Take that light off your desk.

			  JOE
	I will.

			  WATURI
	Take it off now.

Joe unplugs the light and takes it off his desk.

			  WATURI
	Good.

Waturi leaves.  Joe sits at his desk, shrinking in the
fluorescent light.  He sips his coffee. The PHONE RINGS
and he answers.

			  JOE
	Advertising library.  Fifty?
	I'm sorry, we don't have that
	many in stock.  I don't know
	why.  The catalog is a
	thing... I don't know.  It's
	here and it's gone.  I can't
	explain.  It's a mystery.

He hangs up the phone.  Dede has quietly come in.  She's
looking at Joe.  She speaks to him in a low voice.

			  DEDE
	Why do you let Waturi talk to
	you like that?


			  JOE
	Like what?
							    (CONTINUED)
									 8.

4	 CONTINUED:  (5)								    4

			  DEDE
	What's wrong with you?

			  JOE
	I don't... feel very good.

She looks at him.  She's frustrated with this guy.  This
is somebody who she could go for, but he's just lying
there like a dog waiting to be kicked.  He looks at her.
If he had the strength, if he were feeling a little
better, he'd make a play for this woman.  But he's
helpless.  He just doesn't feel very good.  Absently, he
feels the glands in his throat.

			  DEDE
	What's the matter with you?

			  JOE
	I don't know.

She stares at him.  She's angry, frustrated.  She turns
and walks out. Joe's eyes are shining with tears that
will not fall.  He is powerless to help himself.  He
mutters to himself, fierce and impotent.


			  JOE
	I don't know.

He presses the heels of his hands into his eyes.


5	 INT. DOCTOR'S WAITING ROOM - DAY					  5

We discover Joe with the heels of his hands pressed into
his eyes.  This room is fluorescently lit, too, and
perhaps at first we don't realize we have gone somewhere
else.  A nurse's voice is heard.

			  NURSE (O.S.)
	Mr. Banks?  Mr. Banks?

Joe, startled, takes his hands from his eyes. The CAMERA
PULLS BACK and we see we're in a doctor's waiting room.
And now we see the NURSE.  She is a very conservative,
W.A.S.P. Nurse .


			  JOE
	Yeah?


			  NURSE
	Doctor Ellison will see you
	now.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			  9.

6	 INT. DR. ELLISON'S OFFICE - DAY					   6

The lighting in the doctor's office is the first warm,
relaxing light we've seen.  It comes from lamps and a
little frosted window.  The office itself is full of old
wood and books.  DR. ELLISON sits in a comfortable chair,
at an old desk.  He is the last word in doctors.  He's a
large, respectable, distinguished, greyed-haired M.D.
He's a specialist.  You get the feeling he may be a
genius.

			  ELLISON
	How are you feeling, Mr.
	Banks?

			  JOE
	Pretty much the same.  I feel
	puffy, blotchy.  I never seem
	to have very much energy.  I
	get these little sore throats.
	I just don't feel good.

			  ELLISON
	And how long have you felt
	this way?

			  JOE
	Well.  Pretty much since I
	left the Fire Department.  On
	and off. But since then.
	'Bout eight years.

			  ELLISON
	What did you do in the Fire
	Department?

			  JOE
	Well, ah, you know, I put out
	fires.

			  ELLISON
	Was it dangerous?

			  JOE
	Yeah.  Ahm, pretty rough
	stuff. But I came out of it
	okay.  The hard part was not
	feeling good all the time.  I
	started not feeling good all
	the time.  So I hadda quit.

Ellison nods.

			  ELLISON
	Yes.  I've gotten the results
	of your tests.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  10.

6	 CONTINUED:									    6

			  JOE
	I've got cancer.

			  ELLISON
	No.

			  JOE
	This new venereal...

			  ELLISON
	No.

			  JOE
	Is there something wrong with
	my blood or urine or...?

			  ELLISON
	No, they're fine.  But there
	is something.

			  JOE
	Tell me.

			  ELLISON
	You have a brain cloud.

			  JOE
	A brain cloud.

			  ELLISON
	There's a black fog of tissue
	running right down the center
	of your brain.  It's very
	rare.  It will spread at a
	regular rate. It's very
	destructive.

			  JOE
	And it's incurable.

			  ELLISON
	Yes.

			  JOE
	How long?

			  ELLISON
	Six months.  You can pretty
	much count on it being about
	that. It's not painful.  Your
	brain will simply fail.
	Followed abruptly by your
	body.  You can depend on at
	least four and half or five
	months of perfect health.
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  11.

6	 CONTINUED:  (2)								    6

			  JOE
	But what are you talking
	about, Doctor?  I don't feel
	good right now.

			  ELLISON
	That's the ironic part,
	really. Mr. Banks, you're a
	hypochondriac. There's nothing
	wrong with you that has
	anything to do with your
	symptoms.  My guess is your
	experiences in the Fire
	Department were extremely
	traumatic.  You experienced
	the imminent possibility of
	death.  Several times?
		  (as Joe nods numbly)
	You survived.  But the
	cumulative anxiety of those
	brushes with death left you
	habitually fearful. About your
	physical person.

			  JOE
	I'm not sick?  Except for this
	terminal disease?

			  ELLISON
	Which has no symptoms.  That's
	right.  It was only because of
	your insistence on having so
	many tests that we happened to
	discover the problem.

Joe laughs, a little maniacally, then stops abruptly.

			  JOE
	What am I going to do?

			  ELLISON
	Well, if you have any savings
	you might think about taking a
	trip, a vacation?

			  JOE
	I don't have any savings.  A
	few hundred bucks.  I've spent
	everything on doctors.

	ELLISON
	Yes.  Perhaps you'll want a
	second opinion?

			  JOE
	A brain cloud.  I knew it.
	Well, I didn't know it, but I
	knew it.
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 12.

6	 CONTINUED:  (3)								    6

			  ELLISON
	Yes.

			  JOE
	What am I going to do?

			  ELLISON
	You have some time left, Mr.
	Banks. You have some life
	left. My advice to you is:
	Live it well.

			  JOE
	I've got to go.  I'm on my
	lunch hour which is over.

Joe gets up and Ellison follows suit, putting out his
hand.

			  ELLISON
	I'm sorry for what I had to
	tell you. I wish the news had
	been better.

Joe doesn't take his hand.

			  JOE
	Yeah .

Joe leaves. Ellison starts to sit down. Joe comes back
in.

			  JOE
	I'm sorry I didn't shake your
	hand.

Joe takes the doctor's hand and shakes it.  Then he drops
it and exits abruptly.  Ellison sits there a moment, not
moving.  Then he opens a drawer in his desk and takes out

a flask.  He pours himself a drink and begins to drink
it.


7	 EXT. MEDICAL LEAGUE BUILDING - DAY					7

This is the building Ellison's office is in.  Joe's car
is parked out front.  Joe comes slowly out.  It's still
overcast, but lighter and dryer than it was earlier. As
Joe walks down the steps, an elderly woman approaches
with her dog, Molly, a mutt.  Joe sees the dog and stops,
fixed on it.  He pats the dog on the head.  The elderly
woman thinks this is nice.

Then Joe embraces the dog, and kneeling down, hugs it
intensely.  The elderly woman is alarmed and pulls the
dog away.  Joe looks after them.
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 13.

7	 CONTINUED:									    7

Then he gets in his car, which is beat-up and beige.
Drives off.


8	 EXT. AMERICAN PANASCOPE CORPORATION PARKING LOT - DAY		8

Joe drives INTO FRAME.  He gets out and we FOLLOW him as
he approaches the GUARD at the gate.  The Guard nods him
in.  He starts to walk past.  Then he goes back to the
Guard.

			  JOE
	What's your name?

			  GUARD
	Fred.

			  JOE
	Fred.

He thinks that over and then goes on his way.


9	 INT. PANASCOPE BUILDING - DAY						9

Joe standing outside the door marked Advertising Dept. He
is thoughtful.  He goes in.


10	INT. ADVERTISING DEPARTMENT - DAY			   10

Joe comes in.  Dede is typing away.  Mr. Waturi is on the
phone.  Joe hangs up his coat.  He misses with the hat
again because of Dede's typing.  He leans over and
switches the typewriter off.  Then he picks up his hat,
dusts it off and throws it in the garbage can.

			  WATURI
		  (on phone)
	No.  No.  You were wrong.  He
	was wrong.  Who said that?  I
	didn't say that.  If I had
	said that, I would've been
	wrong.  I would've been wrong,
	Harry, isn't that right?

Mr. Waturi's attention is split between his call and Joe,
who is walking around the office like a tourist.

			  WATURI
	Listen, let me call you back,
	I've got something here, okay?
	And don't tell him anything
	till we finish our
	conversation, okay?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  14.

10	CONTINUED:									   10

Mr. Waturi hangs up the phone.  Joe is looking at the
coffee set-up.

			  WATURI
	Joe?

			  JOE
	Yeah?

			  WATURI
	You were at lunch three hours.

			  JOE
	About that.

Joe wanders away, into his office.  Waturi looks after.


11	INT. JOE'S OFFICE - DAY							11

Joe is staring at the big wheel valve sporting the sign
that says Main Drain.  Mr. Waturi comes in as Joe moves
forward and, with great effort, rotates the wheel to its
opposite extreme.  This scares Waturi.

			  WATURI
	Joe, what are you doing?

			  JOE
	I'm opening, or closing, the
	main drain.

Nothing happens.

			  WATURI
	You shouldn't be touching
	that.

			  JOE
	Nothing happened.  Do you know
	how long I've been wondering
	what would happen if I did
	that?

			  WATURI
	What's the matter with you?

			  JOE
	Brain cloud.

			  WATURI
	What?

			  JOE
	Never mind.  Listen, Mr.
	Waturi. Frank.  I quit.
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 15.

11	CONTINUED:									   11

Joe starts to take some stuff out of his desk.  He looks
at his lamp, gets the cord, plugs it in, and turns it on.

			  WATURI
	You mean, today?

			  JOE
	That's right.

			  WATURI
	That's great.  Well, don't
	come looking for a reference.

			  JOE
	Okay, I won't.

			  WATURI
	You blew this job.

Joe takes in the little room.

			  JOE
	I've been here for four and a
	half years.  The work I did I
	probably could've done in
	five, six months. That leaves
	four years leftover.


He's been filling up a shopping bag with stuff from his
desk:  three books (Romeo and Juliet, Robinson Crusoe and
The Odyssey), an old ukulele and his lamp.  Now he's
finished.  He walks out of the room without even looking
at Waturi.  Waturi goes after him as he exits.


12	INT. ADVERTISING DEPARTMENT - DAY					12

Joe is walking towards the front door.  Waturi follows
him in.  Joe stops at Dede's desk. She's typing.  He
looks at her.  She stops typing.

			  JOE
	Four years.  If I had them
	now. Like gold in my hand.
	Here.  This is for you.
		  (gives Dede the lamp)
	'Bye-bye, Dede.

			  DEDE
	You're going?

			  WATURI
	Well, if you're leaving,
	leave.
		    (MORE)
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  16.

12	CONTINUED:									   12

			  WATURI (CONT'D)
	You'll get your check.  And, I
	promise you, you'll be easy to
	replace.

			  JOE
	I should say something.

			  WATURI
	What are you talking about?

			  JOE
	This life.  Life?  What a
	joke. This situation   This
	room.

			  WATURI
	Joe, maybe you should just...


			  JOE
	You look terrible, Mr. Waturi.
	You look like a bag of shit
	stuffed inna cheap suit.  Not
	that anyone would look good
	under these zombie lights.  I
	can feel them sucking the
	juice outta my eyeballs. Three
	hundred bucks a week, that's
	the news.  For three hundred
	bucks a week I've lived in
	this sink. This used rubber.

			  WATURI
	Watch it, mister!  There's a
	woman here!

			  JOE
	Don't you think I know that,
	Frank? Don't you think I'm
	aware there's a woman here?  I
	can taste her on my tongue.  I
	can smell her.  When I'm
	twenty feet away, I can hear
	the fabric of her dress when
	she moves in her chair.  Not
	that I've done anything about
	it.  I've gone all day, every
	day, not doing, not saying,
	not taking the chance for
	three hundred bucks a week,
	and Frank the coffee stinks
	it's like arsenic, the lights
	give me a headache if the
	lights don't give you a
	headache you must be dead,
	let's arrange the funeral.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  17.

12	CONTINUED:  (2)								   12

			  WATURI
	You better get outta here
	right now!  I'm telling you!

			  JOE
	You're telling me nothing.

			  WATURI
	I'm telling you!

			  JOE
	And why, I ask myself, why
	have I put up with you?  I
	can't imagine but I know.
	Fear.  Yellow freakin' fear.
	I've been too chicken shit
	afraid to live my life so I
	sold it to you for three
	hundred freakin' dollars a
	week! You're lucky I don't
	kill you! You're lucky I don't
	rip your freakin' throat out!
	But I'm not going to and maybe
	you're not so lucky at that.
	'Cause I'm gonna leave you
	here, Mister Wa-a-Waturi, and
	what could be worse than that?

Joe opens the door and leaves.  Mr. Waturi and Dede are
frozen.  The door reopens and Joe comes halfway back in.

			  JOE
	Dede?


			  DEDE
	Yeah?

			  JOE
	How 'bout dinner tonight?

			  DEDE
	Yeah, uh, okay.

Joe smiles for the first time since we've met him, and
closes the door again.

			  DEDE
	Wow.  What a change.

			  WATURI
	Who does he think he is?

13	INT. "THE SPANISH ROSE" RESTAURANT - NIGHT			 13

Joe and Dede are sitting at a table, steaming plates of
food before them.
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 1/15/89			 18.

13	CONTINUED:									   13

They are drinking red wine.  Joe is caught up in a big
idea.  Dede is mesmerized.

			  JOE
	I mean, who am I?  That's the
	real question, isn't it?  Who
	am I? Who are you?  What other
	questions are there?  What
	other questions are there,
	really?  If you want to
	understand the universe,
	embrace the universe, the door
	to the universe is you!

			  DEDE
	Me?

			  JOE
	You.  Me.

			  DEDE
	You are really intense.

			  JOE
	Am I?  I guess I am.  I was.

			  DEDE
	What do you mean?

			  JOE
	I mean, a long time ago.  In
	the beginning.  I was full of
	piss and vinegar.  Nothing got
	me down.  I wanted to know!

			  DEDE
	You wanted to know what?

			  JOE
	Everything!  But then, I had
	some experiences... I was
	talking to this guy today, he
	says I got scared.

			  DEDE
	Scared of what?

			  JOE
	Have you ever been scared?

			  DEDE
	I guess so.  Sure.

							    (CONTINUED)

									19.

13	CONTINUED: (2)								    13

			  JOE
	What scared you?

			  DEDE
	A lot of things.  At the
	moment, you scare me a little
	bit.

			  JOE
	Me?

			  DEDE
	Yeah.

Across the room, at another table, three guys with
guitars, in traditional Spanish costumes, sing a happy
Castilian song.  Dede and Joe turn and take in the
singers.

			  JOE
	Why would I scare you?

			  DEDE
	I don't know.  There's
	something going on with you.
	This morning you were like a
	lump and now you're... How do
	you feel?

			  JOE
	I feel great.

			  DEDE
	See?  You never feel great.

			  JOE
	No, I never do.

He laughs.

			  DEDE
	What's funny?

			  JOE
	I do feel great.  And that is
	very funny!

			  DEDE
	Where are you?

			  JOE
	I'm right here.

			  DEDE
	I wish I was where you are,
	Joe.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			19A.

13	CONTINUED:  (3)								   13

			  JOE
		  (nodding)
	No, you don't.  Did I ever
	tell you that the first time I
	saw you, I felt I'd seen you
	before?

She shakes her head.


			  JOE
	Wait a minute.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 20.

13	CONTINUED:  (4)								   13

Joe gets up, goes over to the three guys with guitars,
slips them a fin, confers briefly, and returns to the
table.

			  DEDE
	What'd you do?

			  JOE
	I bribed them to sing a song
	that would drive us insane and
	make our hearts swell and
	burst.

Whereupon the three guys with guitars arrive at the table
and launch into an extremely passionate Castilian love
song.  The song makes conversation impossible.  Joe pours
Dede some more red wine.  They toast, looking into each
other's eyes.  The scene ends, but the SONG CONTINUES
through the following.


14	EXT. SPANISH ROSE - NIGHT						   14

Against a slightly tilting lamp post leans a sailor in
uniform.  Joe and Dede emerge from the restaurant and get
in his beat-up car.  The car pulls away.  The SONG
CONTINUES through the following.


15	EXT. STATEN ISLAND FERRY - JOE'S CAR				  15

The ferry pulls away from the shore.  Joe and Dede go to
the railing and look back at Manhattan, all lit up,
receding.  They kiss and look again.  The song continues
through next.



16	EXT. STATEN ISLAND - THREE FAMILY HOUSE - NIGHT		 16

Joe's car pulls to a stop in front of it, and he and Dede
get out.  There are some steps.  He kisses her and
carries her up the steps.  Then he puts her down to open
the door.  The SONG ENDS.


17	INT. JOE'S APARTMENT - FOYER - NIGHT				  17

Joe throws open the door with one hand.  He's got Dede on
his arm.  They kiss passionately.  Joe reluctantly ends
the kiss.

			  JOE
	Listen.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 1/15/89			 21.

17	CONTINUED:									   17

			  DEDE
	What happened to you?

			  JOE
	Huh?

			  DEDE
	What happened to you that
	you're ... so alive?  I can
	see it.

			  JOE
	The doctor told me I've got
	this thing wrong with my
	brain.  It's not catching.
	But I've just got five or six
	months to live.

			  DEDE
	What?

			  JOE
	I'm gonna die.  And it's made
	me. very appreciative of my
	life.

Dede shrinks from him, clutching her coat, suddenly cold.

			  DEDE
	I've gotta go.

			  JOE
	Please don't.

He reaches for her.  She steps back.

			  DEDE
	I've gotta go home.  You
	may've quit, but I got the job
	in the morning.

			  JOE
	Dede, I really want you to
	stay.

			  DEDE
	You're gonna die?

			  JOE
	Yeah, but so what?  Stay!
	Just tonight.  Tomorrow'll
	take care of itself.

She hesitates on the brink of staying, lifts her hands to
say yes, but her courage fails her.

			  DEDE
	I can't handle it, Joe.
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			21A.

17	CONTINUED:  (2)								   17

She drops her hands, grabs the doorknob, and opens the
door.

			  DEDE
	Sorry.


She quickly goes, slamming the door after her.  Joe looks
after her blankly.  Then he takes off his coat, tie and
jacket, and throws them on the floor.  He walks off down

the hall.


18	INT. JOE'S KITCHEN - PREDAWN						18

Joe is making some real coffee.  He's changed into
bathrobe.  He's got a little lamp on, not the overhead
light.  He opens the refrigerator and takes out a loaf of
white bread.  He puts a couple of slices in the toaster.
Then he looks at his little tin dining table and at
window.  The window is so dirty it's opaque.  You'd like
to open it to see out.  He pulls the table over to
window.  Then he pulls a chair over to face the window.
The window looks out on a long little street.  At the end
of the street is a brightness, where the sun will be.  He
brings his coffee to the table, and a napkin, and a a
spoon. He hears the TOAST POP.  He gets it, puts it on a
plate, butters it, and brings it to the table.  He sits
down. He takes a sip of coffee and a bite of toast.  He
1ooks out the window.  The sun is just starting to come
up. He looks at the coffee, at the little whiff of steam
rising from the cracked cup.  The crack's in the shape of
ACHI logo.  He looks at the toast with one bite missing
and the butter melting into the golden bread.  He 1ooks
at the sun's splendid red rim.  These things are so
beautiful.  His eyes well up.  He takes another bite of
the toast and another sip of the coffee and looks at the
rising sun.  It's so great that he's here to experience
these things, and so sad that he's leaving.  He goes back
to the refrigerator and takes out the loaf of bread. He
puts a couple of more slices in the toaster and the
almost full loaf of bread next to the almost full pot of
coffee.


19	INT. JOE'S KITCHEN - MORNING (COUPLE OF HOURS LATER)		 19

The loaf of bread is almost gone and the pot of coffee is
empty.  Now we PULL BACK and see Joe sitting by the
window with his feet up, some crusts of toast lying on
the plate next to him.  The sun has risen a goodly bit,
and can no longer be seen by us.  But Joe is dappled with
sunlight.  He is no longer in the thrall of a big
emotion, but he is extremely deep in the thought.  The
DOORBELL RINGS.  Joe doesn't move.  It RINGS AGAIN.  Did
he hear the doorbell?  It RINGS AGAIN.  He is now
satisfied the doorbell is ringing.  He gets up and out
into the foyer.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 22.

20	INT. JOE'S FOYER - DAY							 20

The DOORBELL starts to RING AGAIN as Joe opens the door.
In the hallway is a powerful, glittering-eyed old man of
seventy, MR. GRAYNAMORE.  He's wearing a long, black
cashmere overcoat, a dramatic but not silly black fedora,
and cowboy boots.  He carries a vacuum-sealed can of
Planter's Peanuts in his pocket.  He's got a cane with a
duck's head.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Joe Banks?  Mr. Joe Banks?

			  JOE
	Yeah?

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Have I come at a bad time?

			  JOE
	Yeah.  No.  I don't know how
	to answer that question.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Can I come in? Can we talk?

Joe throwing the door open.  He's in his bathrobe.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	You're not dressed?

			  JOE
	No.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Doesn't bother me if it
	doesn't bother you.

Graynamore strides past Joe into Joe's living room.  Joe
looks after, in a bit of a daze.  Then he follows.


21	INT. JOE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY						21

It's modest, to say the least.  It's messy and cheaply
furnished.  An enormous crack runs up the wall and across
the ceiling.  Graynamore takes the room in.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Not a nice place you have
	here, Joe.  Mind if I call you
	Joe?

			  JOE
	No.

Graynamore smacks a hole in the wall with his cane.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 23.

21	CONTINUED:  (Al)								  21

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Dingy, shabby, dinky, not
	much.

He rips off his coat with gusto and tosses it away.  He
sings a little of "Someone's in the Kitchen With Dinah."

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 24.

21	CONTINUED:								 21

He's a rich man, from out West, and that's what his
clothes look like.  He seems to be enjoying himself very
much.  He sticks out his hand to Joe.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	I see it as a sign of
	tremendous sophistication that
	you haven't demanded my name
	or asked me what I'm doing
	here.  My name is Samuel
	Harvey Graynamore.

They shake hands.

			  JOE
	Joe Banks.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	I know.
		  (stares into Joe's
		  face)
	I'm trying to see the hero in
	there.

			  JOE
	What do you mean?

			  GRAYNAMORE
	You dragged two kids down a
	six-story burning staircase.
	That was brave.  But then you
	went back up for the third.
	That was heroic.  Com'on,
	you're a hero.

			  JOE
	That was a long time ago.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Yes, it was.

Graynamore opens the nuts and dumps them on the table.

			  JOE
	How do you know my name?

			  GRAYNAMORE
	I know all about you.  As much
	as I could learn in twenty-
	four hours, anyway.  Peanuts?

			  JOE
	No.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			24A.

21	CONTINUED:  (1A)								  21

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Quit your job, huh?

			  JOE
	Yeah.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Well, sounded like a dumb job.
	No family?

			  JOE
	No.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  25.

21	CONTINUED: (2)								    21

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Good for you.  Families are a
	pain in the neck. What do you
	know about superconductors ?

			  JOE
	Nothing.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Me neither.  But I own a huge
	company that dominates the
	world market for
	superconductors.

			  JOE
	Really.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Yes.  Sit down.

Graynamore sits down, suddenly grounded and serious.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	I got a call from Dr. Ellison.
	You were at his office
	yesterday?

Joe nods.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	He told me your news.  I hope
	you won't be angry with him.
	He thought you and I might be
	able to help each other.  Got
	any whiskey?

Joe shakes his head.  Graynamore produces a pipe.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	I want to hire you, Joe Banks.
	I want you...

Graynamore strikes an enormous match and lights up.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	to jump into a volcano.

Joe jumps up.

			  JOE
	I do have some whiskey.

Joe pulls a bottle of cheap scotch out of a cabinet,
along with two glasses.  He pours them both a drink and
sits down.  Graynamore downs his whiskey which makes his
eyes glitter all the more.  He leans forward and speaks
with great intensity.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  26.

21	CONTINUED:  (3)								   21

			  GRAYNAMORE
	There's an island in the South
	Pacific called Waponi Woo. The
	name means 'The Little Island
	With the Big Volcano.' The
	Waponis are a cheerful people
	who live a simple existence
	fishing in the lagoon and
	picking fruit.  They have one
	fear.  That's a big volcano,
	they call it The Big Woo. They
	believe an angry fire god in
	the volcano will sink the
	island unless, once every
	hundred years, he is appeased.
	It's been ninety-nine years,
	eleven months, and eleven days
	since the fire god got his
	propers and the Waponis are
	scared.

			  JOE
	How's the god appeased?

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Of his own free will, a man's
	got to jump into the volcano.
	Now as you might imagine, none
	of the Waponis are anxious to
	volunteer for the honor of
	jumping into the Big Woo.  And
	the problem is that whoever
	does it gotta do it of his own
	free will so what do you do?

			  JOE
	What do you do?

Graynamore gets up and starts to move around the room.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	You do some tradin'.  There's
	a mineral on that island, Mr.
	Banks. It's called bubureau.
	I don't know anywhere else on
	the planet where you can find
	more than a gram of this
	stuff, and believe me I've
	looked.  Because without
	bubureau I can't make my
	superconductors.  I've tried
	to get the mineral rights from
	the Waponis, but I don't seem
	to have anything they want.
	But they do want a hero, Mr.
	Banks.  And they'll give me
	the mineral rights if I find
	them one.

			  JOE
	Why would I jump into a
	volcano?
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  27.

21	CONTINUED:  (4)								   21

Graynamore moves behind Joe.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	From your exploits in the Fire
	Department, I think you've got
	the courage.

			  JOE
	You do?

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Does it take more guts to
	twice traverse a staircase in
	flames, or to make a onetime
	leap into the mouth of a
	smoking volcano? Damned if I
	know, kimosabe.  All I know is
	when you're making those kind
	of calls, you're up in the
	high country. From your
	doctor, you know you're on
	your way out anyway.  You
	haven't got any money.  I
	checked.
		  (grabs Joe by the
		  shoulders)
	Do you want to wait it out
	here, in this apartment?  That
	sounds kind a grim to me.
	It's not how I'd wanna go,
	I'll tell you that.

Graynamore lets go of his shoulders.  He takes out his
wallet and lays out four credit cards on the stereo
console:  Diner's Club, Gold Visa, Gold Master, and Gold
American Express.  The cards have Joseph Banks printed on
them.  Joe looks at the cards.  We hear Graynamore's
voice as we look at the cards.

			  GRAYNAMORE (O.S.)
	These are yours if you take
	the job.  It'd be twenty days
	from today before you'd have
	to actually jump in the Big
	Woo.  You could shop today,
	get yourself some clothes, you
	know, for an adventure.  Then
	tomorrow a plane to L.A. first
	class, naturally. You'll be
	met.  Stay in the best hotel.
	Then the next day, you board a
	yacht.  My competitors
	sometimes watch the airports.
	The yacht's a real beauty.
		  (produces wallet photo
		  of the yacht)
	It belongs to me.  Gourmet
	chef.
		    (MORE)

							    (CONTINUED)
			  ### - continued & page number
missing
			  GRAYNAMORE (O.S.) (CONT'D)
	   You sail to the South Pacific.
	   Then, fifteen days. The Waponis
	   come out to meet you, a total
	   red carpet situation, you're a
	   national hero. You're Charles
	   Lindbergh. It's wine, women and
	   song in the sweetest little
	   paradise you ever saw. Then you
	   jump in the volcano. Live like a
	   king, die like a man, that's what
	   I say. What do you say?

	   (picks up the credit cards and looks
	   ###ks at Graynamore.

			  JOE
	   Alright. I'll do it.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	   Here's my card and your plane
	   ticket. American, noon out of
	   Kennedy tomorrow.

	   (picks up his coat and hat and
	   heads for door)

			  JOE
	   Mr. Graynamore?

			  GRAYNAMORE
	   Yes?

			  JOE
	   What if I use the cards and take
	   the plane and go on the yacht and
	   party on the island and then I
	   change  my mind and I don't jump in
	   the volcano?

			  GRAYNAMORE
	   Why then I'd kill you in a very
	   slow and painful way.  But you'll
	   jump.

	   (laughs in a warm and wonderful way,
	   goes to door, opens it, and leaves.)

	   Joe stands there,
	   ###er him for a moment, and then
	   pulls out the
	   ###s.  He flips through, finds what
	   he wants, and
	   ### number.

			  JOE
  Hi, I'd like to rent a limousine
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89		    A28A.

21	CONTINUED:  (6)								   21

			  JOE (CONT'D)
	Thank you?  Yes, I do.
	American Express.  The Gold
	Card.  Can I have a white
	limousine?

Joe smiles, looking at the card in his hand.


22	EXT. WHITE LIMOUSINE IN LOWER MANHATTAN - DAY		   22

The car has just emerged from Staten Island Ferry
traffic.  We see the friendly face on the front grill of
the limousine.  It is a slightly overcast day.


23	INT. LIMOUSINE - DAY							   23

Joe is sitting in the back, idly plucking his ukulele,
looking out the windows, stretching his legs. Driver is a
middle-aged black man; his name is MARSHALL.  He's
wearing a jacket and tie and sunglasses. He seems
reserved and efficient

			  MARSHALL
	So where would you like to go?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - -Rev. 3/23/89		    28A.

23	CONTINUED:  (A1)								  23

			  JOE
	Excuse me?

							    (CONTINUED)
									29.

23	CONTINUED:									   23

			  MARSHALL
	Where would you like to go,
	sir?

Joe thinks for a moment.

			  JOE
	I thought I might like to do
	some shopping.

			  MARSHALL
	Okay.  Where would you like to
	go shopping?

			  JOE
	I don't know.

Marshall is disgruntled, but hides it behind his reserve.

			  MARSHALL
	Alright.

			  JOE
	Where would you go shopping?

			  MARSHALL
	For what?  What do you need?

			  JOE
	Clothes.

			  MARSHALL
	What kind of clothes?  What is
	your taste?

			  JOE
	I don't exactly know.

Marshall pulls the car over and stops.

			  JOE
	Why'd you stop?

			  MARSHALL
	I'm just hired to drive the
	car, mister.  I'm not here to
	tell you who you are.

			  JOE
	I didn't ask you to tell me
	who I am.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 30.

23	CONTINUED:  (2)								   23

			  MARSHALL
	You were hinting around about
	clothes.  It happens that
	clothes are very important to
	me, Mister..

			  JOE
	Banks.

			  MARSHALL
	Banks.  Clothes make the man.
	I believe that.  You say to me
	you wanna go shopping, you
	wanna buy clothes, but you
	don't know what kind.  You
	leave that hanging in the air,
	like I'm going to fill in the
	blank, that to me is like
	asking me who you are, and I
	don't know who you are, I
	don't wanna know.  It's taken
	me my whole life to find out
	who I am and I'm tired now,
	you hear what I'm say in'?
	What's your name?

			  JOE
	Joe.

			  MARSHALL
	My name's Marshall, how you
	do?

They shake hands quite seriously.

			  MARSHALL
	Wait a minute.  I'm coming
	back.


Marshall gets out of the driver's seat, goes back and
gets in next to Joe.

			  MARSHALL
	Now what's your situation?
	Explain your situation to me?

			  JOE
	I'm going away on a long trip.

			  MARSHALL
	Okay.

			  JOE
	I've got the opportunity to
	buy some clothes today.

			  MARSHALL
	Yes.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 31.

23	CONTINUED:  (3)								   23

			  JOE
	Money's no object.

			  MARSHALL
	Good.  Where you going?

			  JOE
	Well.  I'm going out tonight
	in the city.

			  MARSHALL
	Nice places?

			  JOE
	I hope so.  Then tomorrow I'm
	flying to L.A.

			  MARSHALL
	First class?

			  JOE
	Yeah.

			  MARSHALL
	Good.


			  JOE
	Then I'm getting on a yacht
	and sailing to the South
	Pacific.

	MARSHALL Hawaii?

			  JOE
	No.  A really unknown little
	island.

			  MARSHALL
	No tourists?

			  JOE
	I don't think so.

			  MARSHALL
	Good.

			  JOE
	Then I'll be on the island for
	a couple of weeks, then that's
	it.

			  MARSHALL
	And what do you got in the way
	of clothes now?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/7/89			  32.

23	CONTINUED:  (4)								   23

			  JOE
	Well, I've got the kind of
	clothes I'm wearin'.

			  MARSHALL
	So you've got no clothes.
	We'll start with basics.
	We'll start with underwear.
	We'll start with Dunhill.

Marshall gets out of the car and heads back for the
driver's seat.

He thinks.  Marshall puts the car in gear and pulls away
from the curb.


24	EXT. DUNHILL - DAY								24

The white limo pulls up. Two dog bars bracket the
entrance to Dunhill with two big matching dogs, probably
great Danes, drinking at each of the dog bars.  The dogs
are held on leashes by a man in a business suit and a
woman in a pretty coat.


25	INT. WHITE LIMO - DAY							  25

Joe's getting ready to get out.

			  JOE
	So just socks and underwear?

			  MARSHALL
	Conservative underwear is the
	only way to go.  White cotton
	broadcloth boxers.  Silk
	shorts make you feel like a
	whore, so none of that.  But
	with the tee shirts, Egyptian
	cotton, all right?


			  JOE
	Alright.

Joe gets out of the car and goes in.


26	INT. DUNHILL - UNDERWEAR COUNTER - DAY				26

A conservative UNDERGARMENT SALESMAN is helping Joe.

			  UNDERGARMENT SALESMAN
	How many pairs of boxer shorts
	would you like, sir?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/7/89			  33.

26	CONTINUED:									   26

			  JOE
	How many does a man need?

The Salesman pauses, thinks and replies.

			  UNDERGARMENT
	SALESMAN Eight pairs.


27	EXT. DUNHILL - DAY								27

Marshall's leaning against the limo, reading a copy of
The Scientific American.

A WOMAN appears dressed as the Statue of Liberty.  She
looks at Marshall.  He returns the glance.  She has a tin
can in her hand.

			  MARSHALL
	What?

			  STATUE (WOMAN)
	How about a dollar for the way
	I look?

			  MARSHALL
	Shoot.  How 'bout a dollar for
	the way I look?

He gives her a dollar.

			  MARSHALL
	Yeah.

She exits.  Joe comes out of the store with a shopping
bag.  Marshall opens the door for him.

			  JOE
	They've got a changing room.
	I'm wearing the underwear.

			  MARSHALL
	I knew that. I could see it on
	your face.


28	INT. LIMO - STILL AT CURB BY BROOKS - DAY			  28

			  MARSHALL
	What else you need?

			  JOE
	Ah, well, some kind of
	overcoat. I don't know, maybe
	like a English trench coat.
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/7/89			  34.

28	CONTINUED:									   28

			  MARSHALL
	English trench coat?  That's
	foul weather wear, man.
	You're goin' west!

			  JOE
	What would you get?

			  MARSHALL
	You're a sexual man?

			  JOE
	Yeah?

			  MARSHALL
	Not that I mean to be crude,
	but I'm trying to express
	something.  Armani.  That's
	what you want.  And how 'bout
	a haircut?

			  JOE
	What's wrong with my hair?

			  MARSHALL
	I can't express it.  It looks
	like freedom without choice.
	It looks wrong.

While he's talking, he has picked up the car phone and
punched some numbers.  He speaks into the phone.

			  MARSHALL
	Salon Salon, please.

He breaks the connection and dials again.

			  MARSHALL
	Hi, gimme Cassie Cimorelli,
	please. Hello, Cassie?  It's
	Marshall, how you?  Good.
	Listen, I got somebody who
	needs you today, can you help
	me out?  2:30?  Great, good,
	thanks.

He hangs up.

			  MARSHALL
	We gotta get moving.

He puts the car in gear and pulls away.


29	EXT. GIORGIO ARMANI'S - DAY						 29

The white limo pulls up.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 35.

30	INT. LIMO - DAY								   30

			  JOE
	So what do I ask for?

			  MARSHALL
	This is too complicated.  I
	gotta come in with you.  If I
	getta ticket it can't be
	helped.


31	EXT. LIMO OUTSIDE ARMANI'S - DAY					 31

Joe and Marshall get out and go in.


32	INT. ARMANI'S - DAY							    32

Joe is standing on a fitting stool in a beautiful suit.
He's being ministered to by an ITALIAN TAILOR, as
Marshall supervises.  Marshall murmurs to the Tailor.

			  MARSHALL
	I still think the full break
	over the shoe is the way to
	go.

			  TAILOR
	No more than half this year, I
	swear to you.
		  (to Joe)
	You can take it off now, sir.

Points the way to Joe and walks off.

			  MARSHALL
	Hey, Joe, how about a tux?

			  JOE
	What for?

			  MARSHALL
	Something'll come up.  There's
	nothing a man looks better in.

			  JOE
	I'll get one if you get one.

			  MARSHALL
	I can't be buying no Armani
	tux. I'm a working man.

			  JOE
	You're getting paid to drive
	the car.  Nobody's paying you
	to give me all this advice.
	Let me buy you the tux and
	we'll call it even.
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/7/89			 35A.

32	CONTINUED:									   32

Marshall thinks it over.


33	INT. ARMANI'S - TEN MINUTES LATER - DAY			    33

Marshall is standing on the fitting stool in an Armani
tuxedo. The Tailor is doing his cuffs.

			  MARSHALL
	Gimme the full break over the
	shoe, Pietro.  It's my
	preference.

			  TAILOR
	Whatever's your pleasure, sir.


34	EXT. ARMANI AT CURB - JOE AND MARSHALL - DAY		    34

emerge.  Marshall opens the door to the limo for Joe and
urges him to speed it up.

			  MARSHALL
	Come on, kid!  We're on a
	roll!
		  (as he walks around to
		  the driver's side)
	Didn't even get a ticket.

Marshall gets in, starts it up, and pulls away.


35	EXT. HORN OF AFRICA - LIMO OUTSIDE - DAY			   35

Two Tiki heads bracket either side of the entrance.


36	INT. THE HORN OF AFRICA - DAY					    36

Joe is trying on a safari jacket.  Two salesmen stand by.
Joe nods.  Now one of the salesmen puts a particularly
dashing safari hat on Joe.  He looks in a mirror.  He
really, really likes it.


37	INT. SALON SALON - DAY							 37

It's a large, bustling beauty center in midtown.  There
must be fifteen hairdressers spread out over a spacious,
well-windowed area.  It's a festive place with glossy

magazines and coffee and water running and blow dryers
going.  Happy BRAZILIAN MUSIC is playing on the sound
system.  Now we zero in on Cassie's corner.  CASSIE is in
her thirties, with a short fetching up-to-the-minute
haircut.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/7/89			  36.

37	CONTINUED:									   37

She's also got a terrific personality; she's the salt of
the earth.  And she's cutting Joe's hair.  Marshall sits
on a nearby chair.  He's reading B, a trendy magazine.

			  JOE

	How you making me look?

			  CASSIE
	I'm undoing this cut from
	before. This is some piece of
	geography. Where'd you get
	this?

			  JOE
	In one of those subway barber
	shops.

			  CASSIE
	It has that reality.  Grim.
	You're a very handsome guy,
	I'm just gonna bring that out.
	Marshall, which one is that?

			  MARSHALL
	It's the in and out issue.

			  CASSIE
	That's the best!  What's in?

			  MARSHALL
	Carrie Fisher, Barcelona,
	African-Americans, happy
	endings, The New York Dally
	News, tomato salads, God,
	garlic, wristwatches you have
	to wind up, and true love.

			  CASSIE
	Did you say Carrie Fisher?

			  MARSHALL
	You don't like Carrie Fisher?

			  CASSIE
	I love Carrie Fisher!  I can't
	believe it!  So intelligent!
	So dry!  That's a totally
	great list. What's out?  Read
	it slow.

			  MARSHALL
	Kafka, C.D.'s.

			  CASSIE
	That's true.  I've had it with
	Kafka.  Those little eyes...so
	full of misery.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/7/89			  37.

37	CONTINUED:  (2)								   37

			  MARSHALL
	Stand-up comedy...

			  CASSIE
	Stand-up comedy makes me
	nervous.

			  MARSHALL
	All restaurants that haven't
	been in existence for at least
	thirty years.

			  CASSIE
	Yes.

			  MARSHALL
	Paloma Picasso.

			  CASSIE
	No, I don't agree with that.
	I love Paloma Picasso.  Those
	lips! So red, so big!

			  MARSHALL
	New money and old money.

			  CASSIE
	Okay.

			  MARSHALL
	All camp, all trash, all
	trivia...

			  CASSIE
	Oh com'on, take a risk.

			  MARSHALL
	And The New York Times.

			  CASSIE
	Finally somebody said it!
	What rag!

Cassie finishes cutting Joe's hair.  It's a great cut.

			  CASSIE
	Very gratifying.  Thank you,
	Marshall.  Well, here you are.

			  JOE
	I look good.

			  MARSHALL
	You're coming into focus, kid!
	I can see you now.

Marshall nods approval.  Cassie and Joe exchange a smile.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/7/89			 37A.

38	OMITTED										 38


39	EXT. HAMMACHER SCHLEMMER - DAY					   39

The limo pulls up.  Joe goes in. Marshall stays in the
car.


40	INT. HAMMACHER SCHLEMMER - DAY					   40

ANGLE ON the indoor golfing practice green.  Joe putts a
golf ball into the hole.

			  JOE
	I'll take it.

			  SALESWOMAN
	Yes, sir.

Joe walks OUT OF FRAME. CLOSEUP PAN ACROSS the glass
counter top of a Swiss army knife, a world band travel
radio, shaving kit, lantern and a violin case that
doubles as a bar; until we COME TO a large light colored
umbrella which is pointed AT us.  The umbrella closes,
revealing Joe.

			  JOE
	I'll take this, too.

			  HAMMACHER SCHLEMMER SALESMAN
	Will that be all?

Joe walks away.

							    CUT TO:
40A    PICTURE CUT-OUT								  40A

of a woman demonstrating the walk on water shoes.  Joe
approaches.  The SALESWOMAN appears as well.  Joe is
really looking at the shoes.

			  SALESWOMAN
	Does that interest your

			  JOE
	You mean you can walk on
	water?

			  SALESWOMAN
	With a little help.  Yes.

			  JOE
	I'll take a pair.


							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/7/89			 37B.

40A    CONTINUED:									  40A

			  SALESWOMAN
	Alright.  Very good, sir.
	Thank you.

			  JOE
	Thank YOU.


41	INT. WHITE LIMO IN FRONT OF ARMANI - DAY			   41

Two uniformed attendants from Armani are handing the last
of the boxes to Joe, who's now sitting in front with
Marshall.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 38.

41	CONTINUED:									   41

The back of the car is completely loaded with stuff.  The
attendants head back to the entrance where they stand at
parade rest on either side of the door.  Joe calls after.

			  JOE
	Thanks!

Marshall pulls away from the curb.

			  MARSHALL
	You know what you need?

			  JOE
	What else could I need?

			  MARSHALL
	How you gonna carry this
	stuff? You need luggage!

			  JOE
	I didn't think of that.


42	INT. SMALL EXCLUSIVE LUGGAGE STORE (J. RUSS) - DAY	   42

It's as quiet as a church.  A few pieces of extremely
high quality leather luggage are on display.  The
SALESMAN, a small neat man in a quiet suit, is the
store's representative.  He's talking with Joe.  He's a
very serious, understated man.

			  LUGGAGE SALESMAN
	Have you thought much about
	luggage, Mr. Banks?

			  JOE
	No, I never really have.

			  LUGGAGE SALESMAN
	It's the central preoccupation
	of my life.  You travel the
	world, you're away from home,
	perhaps away from your family,
	all you have to depend on is
	yourself and your luggage.

			  JOE
	I guess that's true.

			  LUGGAGE SALESMAN
	Are you traveling light or heavy?

			  JOE
	Heavy.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 39.

42	CONTINUED:									   42

			  LUGGAGE SALESMAN
	Flying?

			  JOE
	Flying.  And by ship.

			  LUGGAGE SALESMAN
	An ocean voyage?

			  JOE
	Yes.

			  LUGGAGE SALESMAN
	Ah.  Yes.  So.  A real
	journey.

			  JOE
	And then I'll be staying on
	this island, I don't even
	really know if I'll be living
	in a hut or what.

			  LUGGAGE
	SALESMAN Very exciting.

			  JOE
	Yeah.

			  LUGGAGE SALESMAN
	As a luggage problem.  I
	believe I have just the thing.

The Luggage Salesman rolls out an absolutely gorgeous
steamer trunk of dark, wine-colored leather and brass
fittings.

			  JOE
	Wow.

The Luggage Salesman opens it. It has hangers, drawers, a
mirror, the works.

			  LUGGAGE SALESMAN
	This is our premier steamer
	trunk.  All handmade, only the
	finest materials.  It's even
	water-tight, tight as a drum.
	If I had the need and the
	wherewithal, Mr. Banks, this
	would be my trunk of choice. I
	could face the world with a
	trunk like this by my side.

Joe is moved.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  40.

42	CONTINUED:  (2)								   42

			  JOE
	I'll take four of them.

This is the classiest thing the Luggage Salesman's ever
heard.

			  LUGGAGE SALESMAN
	May you live to be a thousand
	years old, sir.

Not normally a demonstrative man, he slowly raises hand,
offering it to Joe.  Joe takes it and they shake.


43	EXT. STREET OUTSIDE LUGGAGE STORE - DAY			    43

Marshall and Joe have just finished securing the four
trunks to the top of the white limo.  They get in the
car.


44	INT. LIMO - DAY								   44

Marshall starts it up.

			  JOE
	I'm through shopping.

			  MARSHALL
	Fair enough.  Where to? Back
	to Staten Island?

			  JOE
	Yeah, I guess so.  No.  A
	really good hotel.  The Plaza?

			  MARSHALL
	The Plaza's nice.

			  JOE
	Where would you go?

			  MARSHALL
		  (lighting up)
	The Pierre!


45	EXT. THE PIERRE HOTEL - DUSK						45

Seven bellboys and girls are unloading the white limo and
carrying its contents into the hotel.  They wear classic
bellboy uniforms and caps.  Marshall and Joe are
watching.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 41.

45	CONTINUED:									   45

			  JOE
	Marshall?

			  MARSHALL
	Yeah?

			  JOE
	I wonder if you'd want to have
	dinner with me tonight?

			  MARSHALL
	Can't do it.  I got my wife
	and kids at the end of the
	day, you know?

			  JOE
	Yeah.

The HEAD BELLMAN informs Joe.

			  HEAD BELLMAN
	Everything's at check-in when
	you're ready, sir.

The Bellman departs within.

			  MARSHALL
	Listen, ain't you got nobody?

			  JOE
	No.  But there are certain
	times in your life when I
	guess you're not supposed to
	have anybody, you know?  There
	are certain doors you have to
	go through alone.

			  MARSHALL
	You're gonna be Alright.

Joe shrugs.  He and Marshall shake hands.  They look at
each other.  We see Marshall get in the limo and pull
away.  We see Joe look after him, then turn and go into
the hotel.

MUSIC:

A instrumental jazz version of "Do You Know The Way To
San Jose" plays through the following scenes.


46	INT. SUITE IN THE PIERRE HOTEL - NIGHT				46

Joe has one of his trunks open.  He's hanging his tuxedo
up in it.  He's been taking stuff out of boxes and
packing it into the trunks.  He opens another box and
takes out his new suit.  The MUSIC CONTINUES through the
next.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  42.

47	INT. MAIN RESTAURANT IN THE PIERRE HOTEL - NIGHT		47

This is an incredibly beautiful, quiet restaurant.  Joe's
discovered, sitting alone at a table. The Pierre waiter
is just walking away.  Joe's sipping a glass of wine, his
entree before him.  The MUSIC CONTINUES through next.


48	EXT. CENTRAL PARK SOUTH - JOE - NIGHT				 48

Walking along.  As he approaches The Plaza, two cabs pull
up and eight theatregoers from out of town disembark.
They are all middle-aged, wearing their best clothes,
having a good time.  They cross in front of Joe on their
way into the hotel.  He watches them go by and disappear.
It makes him smile and it makes him feel alone.  He goes
on.  The MUSIC CONTINUES through next.


49	EXT. DEPARTMENT STORE WINDOW - NIGHT				  49

Joe walks by and stops, struck by the contents of the win
dow.  It's a female dummy, dressed as Patricia will be on
the yacht.  Behind the dummy is a photo mural of the
yacht.


50	INT. TUESDAY'S (JAZZ BAR) - NIGHT					50

We've arrived at the place where the music is coming
from.  Joe sits at a little table listening to a good
jazz quartet.  They are a pasty-faced English quartet.
Everyone in the club is black except Joe, the bartender
and the band, which is playing "Do You Know The Way to
San Jose."  Everyone is drinking martinis.  They form a
straight line down the bar each with a giant green olive
in it.  Joe finishes a martini and waves for the check.
The MUSIC CONTINUES through the next.


51	EXT. FIFTH AVENUE - 30 FEET FROM THE PIERRE - NIGHT		  51

Joe, weaving ever so slightly, walks up the street and
approaches the hotel.  The MUSIC CONCLUDES.


52	INT. THE PIERRE HOTEL - JOE'S SUITE - NIGHT			52

The lights are out.  Joe's in bed, staring at the
ceiling.  We look DOWN on him.  It's very, very silent.
Finally, he closes his eyes and turns his head.


53	EXT. AMERICAN AIRLINE IN FLIGHT - DAY				 53
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			42A.

54	INT. AMERICAN FLIGHT - FIRST CLASS CABIN - DAY		  54

In the flight to L.A.  Joe is sitting on the aisle.  Next
to him is a grey-haired, wholesome priest named FATHER
CONROY.  The clergyman is most way through a drink,
wrapped up in his own thoughts.  Joe is deeply aware that
he's sitting next to a priest; he's uneasy, shifting in
his chair.  The STEWARDESS notices Joe and approaches.

			  STEWARDESS
	Can I get you anything, sir?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 1/15/89			 43.

54	CONTINUED:									   54

			  JOE
	No, thank you.  No, I changed
	my mind.  Some club soda,
	please.

			  STEWARDESS
	Alright.

Father Conroy catches her eye and slightly raises his
almost empty drink.

			  FATHER CONROY
	I think I'll have one more.

			  STEWARDESS
	Alright.

The Stewardess heads off, down the aisle.  Joe catches
the priest's eye.

			  JOE
	Have you ever been to
	California before?

			  FATHER CONROY
	Oh, many times.

			  JOE
	I've never been anywhere.

			  FATHER CONROY
	I was a chaplain there, years
	ago.  For the Marines.  Camp
	Pendleton.

			  JOE
	I don't believe in God

			  FATHER CONROY
	Okay.

			  JOE
	I did when I was a kid, but I
	lost my faith in high school.

			  FATHER CONROY
	Uh-huh.

			  JOE
	And then, when I was in danger
	- I was a fireman - in the
	middle of the fire, I never
	like turned around and fell to
	my knees and started praying.

							    (CONTINUED)
									44.

54	CONTINUED:  (2)								   54

			  FATHER CONROY
	No?

			  JOE
	No.  There are atheists in
	foxholes.

			  FATHER CONVOY
	I'm sure there are.

			  JOE
	But I've come to a place in my
	life where I've come face to
	face with the facts of life
	and death. I mean, it's a
	chance happening I'm alive,
	it's a miracle, I'm so lucky!
	And it's not going to last.
	It's like a shooting star. So
	beautiful, so fleeting, make a
	wish before it's gone, you
	know? I'm so moved.  But cut
	off.  If there is a God, if
	there is some kind of music
	going through everything, I
	can't hear it.  I'm alone.  I
	really feel I'm alone. I'm
	walking down this little path
	by myself.

			  FATHER CONROY
	Yes.

			  JOE
	Can you help me?

The Stewardess has returned with their drinks.

			  STEWARDESS
	Hi.  I have your drinks.

			  JOE
	Oh, yeah.  Thank you.

She serves the priest a little bottle of bourbon and a
glass of ice.  He gives her his old glass.

			  FATHER CONROY
	Thank you.

Joe is still focussed on Father Conroy.  The good Father
carefully pours the little bottle of bourbon over the
ice.  Joe is very intense.

			  JOE
	Can you help me?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  45.

54	CONTINUED:  (3)								   54

			  FATHER CONROY
	Do you see an analyst of some
	kind?

			  JOE
	I don't need an analyst.
	That's not the kind of problem
	I have.

Inspirational light shines through the cabin window.

			  FATHER CONROY
	If you need a guide.  If
	you're a seeker and you need a
	guide, someone to counsel you
	so you can find your way
	forward into a spiritual
	realm.  And you're on an
	airplane.  Don't look in first
	class.

Father Conroy raises his glass of bourbon in a little
toast to Joe, and then takes a healthy swallow.


55	EXT. L.A. AIRPORT - RUNWAY - DAY					 55

The American flight lands.


56	INT. L.A. AIRPORT TERMINAL - DAY					 56

Joe and his fellow travellers are just entering the
terminal proper.  A commercial airplane presses its nose
inquisitively against a visible window.  It is surrounded
by orange trees.  Joe is surrounded by blond California
guys as he gets off the plane.  We see a homemade banner
"Welcome to L.A. St. Dymphna's Girls Academy."  Of the
six people waiting, five of them look like Brezhnev.  The
sixth is ANGELICA, she is holding aloft a sign which
reads "JOSEPH BANKS."  She looks like Dede.  Joe does a
take, he goes to her.  Several Catholic school girls run
by.

			  JOE
	Hi.

			  ANGELICA
	Hi, are you Joe Banks?

			  JOE
	Yeah.  Who are you?

			  ANGELICA
	I'm the daughter of the guy
	who hired you.  Angelica
	Graynamore.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  46.

56	CONTINUED:									   56

Joe shakes her hand.

			  JOE
	Nice to meet you.  Again.

			  ANGELICA
	What?

Joe shakes his head.

			  ANGELICA
	Daddy told me to tell you that
	I don't know what he hired you
	for, and not to tell me.  That
	I'm totally untrustworthy.
	I'm a flibberti-gibbet.
	C'mon, let's get outta here.

			  JOE
	I've got some luggage.


56A    OMITTED										56A
&													&
57												   57


58	EXT. TAXI FULL OF STEAMER TRUNKS - DAY				58

The taxi is going along a highway.  We LEAVE the taxi and
MOVE FORWARD TO a red convertible.  In the red
convertible are Angelica at the wheel, and Joe beside
her.  They are driving alongside the blue ocean.  Green
palm trees wave overhead.  All is beautiful and fresh.

			  JOE
	I've never been to L.A.
	before.

			  ANGELICA
	What do you think?

			  JOE
	It looks fake.  I like it.


59	EXT. SHANGRI-LA HOTEL - SUNSET					   59

The red convertible pulls up to the entrance and we hear
Angelica say:

			  ANGELICA (O.S.)
	Daddy wanted to put you up in
	Bel Air, but I said no way!
	Shangri-la, Shangri-la!

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			 46A.

59	CONTINUED:  (Al)								  59

The taxi pulls up behind them.  Angelica gets out of the
car and goes back to the cab.

							    (CONTINUED)

JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 47.

59	CONTINUED:									   59

She gives the DRIVER money.

			  ANGELICA
	Thanks.  That's for you.  And
	put everything on the curb,
	please.

			  DRIVER
	Thank you.

Joe gets out of the convertible.  Two deco-porters emerge
from the hotel with luggage carriers, and assist the
Driver in transferring the trunks.  Angelica jumps back
in her car and calls to Joe.

			  ANGELICA
	Check in, fresh up, I'll be
	back for you at seven.  We'll
	have dinner.

Angelica drives off.  Joe looks after, then turns and
goes into the hotel.


60	INT. CHINOIS - NIGHT							   60

Fancy "fun" restaurant.  A big platter of Dungeness crabs
being carried through the restaurant.  It's placed on a
table where Joe and Angelica are sitting.  There are
already two other platters of exotic food on the table.
Now we see the waiter and waitress, a slick blond named
RALPH and a redheaded waitress named RITA.

			  RITA
	Black bread with sour cream
	and golden caviar.

			  RALPH
	The Dungeness crabs.

Joe looks at this dish with alarm. Ralph and Rita depart.

			  ANGELICA
	What's the matter?

			  JOE
	Nothing.

			  ANGELICA
	They do look like little
	monsters or something.
		  (picks one up and
		  attacks it)
	But they're good little
	monsters.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  48.

60	CONTINUED-									   60

Joe tentatively takes one, and small portions of the
other dishes.

			  ANGELICA
	What'd you do before you
	signed on with Daddy?

			  JOE
	I was an advertising librarian
	for a medical supply company.

			  ANGELICA
	Oh.  I have no response to
	that.

			  JOE
	What do you do?

			  ANGELICA
	Why do you ask?

			  JOE
	Uh, I don't know.

Angelica produces and takes two pills.  Suddenly, she
gets very defensive.

			  ANGELICA
	I'm a painter.  And a poet.

			  JOE
	Really?

			  ANGELICA
	Yes.  Does that bother you?

			  JOE
	No.

			  ANGELICA
	People from New York usually
	look down on painters.  And
	poets.

			  JOE
	I didn't know that.

			  ANGELICA
	They think if you live in
	L.A., and you say you're an
	artist, you really do nothing!

			  JOE
	Why?

			  ANGELICA
	You don't think I do nothing?
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			48A.

60	CONTINUED:  (1A)								  60

			  JOE
	No.

			  ANGELICA
	You believe me when I say I'm
	a painter?

			  JOE
	And a poet.  Sure.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 1/15/89			 49.

60	CONTINUED:  (2)								   60

			  ANGELICA
	Well, you're right.  There's a
	painting of mine right there.
						    CUT TO:
60A    PAINTING OF CAR								  60A

in a yellow pool of light overlooking a lit-up city
below.  And --

						    CUT BACK TO:
60B    JOE AND ANGELICA								 60B

looking.

			  JOE
	It's terrific.  Where you get
	your ideas?

			  ANGELICA
	I'll show you.

						    CUT BACK TO:
60C    PAINTING									    60C

						    DISSOLVES INTO:
61	EXT. HILL WITH STREETLIGHT - NIGHT				    61

The streetlight casts a pool of light just like in the
painting, and the city glitters below.  When Angelica's
car pulls into the pool of light and stops, the picture
is complete.

			  JOE
	Nice view.  It's like looking
	down at the stars.

Angelica takes two more pills.

			  ANGELICA
	Do you want to hear one of my
	poems?

			  JOE
	Sure.

			  ANGELICA
	Long ago, the delicate tangles
	of his hair, Covered the
	emptiness of my hands.
		  (to Joe)
	Do you wanna hear it again?

			  JOE
	Okay.

			  ANGELICA
	Long ago, the delicate tangles
	of his hair, Covered the
	emptiness of my hands.		 (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 50.

61	CONTINUED:									   61

She has tears in her eyes.  Joe looks at her, concerned.

			  JOE
	What's the matter?

			  ANGELICA
	Did you ever think about
	killing yourself?

			  JOE
	What?  Why would you do that?

			  ANGELICA
	Why shouldn't I?

			  JOE
	Some things take care of
	themselves.  They're not your
	job. Maybe they're not even
	your business.  I like your
	poem.

			  ANGELICA
	I'm a grown woman and I live
	on my father's money.  That
	restaurant that had my
	painting up, that's my
	father's restaurant.

			  JOE
	Why are you telling me?

			  ANGELICA
	I don't know.
		  (making a joke out of
		  it)
	I'll tell anybody who'll
	listen.
		  (dropping it)
	No, that's not true.  I don't
	know why I'm telling you.

			  JOE
	Listen to me.  If you have a
	choice between killing
	yourself and doing something
	you're scared of doing, why
	not take the leap and do the
	thing you're scared of doing?

			  ANGELICA
	You mean stop taking money and
	leave L.A.?

			  JOE
	You see?  You know what you're
	afraid of doing.  Why don't
	you do it?  See what happens?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  51.

61	CONTINUED:  (2)								   61

Inspired by him, she hesitates on the brink of courage.
For a moment she finds it and lifts her hands to say
"yes," but her courage fails her. She gets a chill.

			  ANGELICA
	You must be tired.

She starts up the car.

			  ANGELICA
	Thanks for listening, but I'm
	a little high, and you don't
	know me from Adam, I mean, I
	guess, Eve.  Anyway, forget
	it.

			  JOE
	I don't mind talking.

Suddenly, she's very angry.

			  ANGELICA
	Well, I do! This is one of
	those typical conversations
	where we're all open and
	sharing our innermost thoughts
	and it's all bullshit and a
	lie and it doesn't cost you
	anything!

			  JOE
	Look.  I don't know you.  I
	don't think I know anybody.
	You're angry.  I can see that.
		  (he quietly gets upset)
	I'm very troubled.  I'm not
	ready to... There's only so
	much time and you wanna use it
	well. So I'm here talking to
	you, I don't wanna throw that
	away. You seem...

			  ANGELICA
	I seem what?

			  JOE
	You seem far away.

			  ANGELICA
	I have no response to that.

			  JOE
	Maybe you better take me back
	to the hotel.

His eyes are shining.  She looks at him.  She puts the
car in gear and pulls out.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 52.

62	EXT. SHANGRI-LA HOTEL - NIGHT					    62

The red convertible pulls up.  Joe gets out.

			  ANGELICA
	You want me to come in?  I
	could come up with you?

			  JOE
	No.

			  ANGELICA
	Alright.  Will you have
	breakfast with me?  I'm
	supposed to get you to the
	boat by ten, but I could meet
	you for breakfast.

			  JOE
	Okay.

			  ANGELICA
	I told you I was a
	flibbertigibbet.

She drives off.  Joe turns to go into the hotel, changes
his mind, and walks out into the street.  We FOLLOW him.
He dodges a lone car, and makes it to the other side
where the palm trees grow.


63	JOE - NIGHT									  63

Joe making his way through some greenery.  He parts some
tall grass, and we see what he sees --
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  53.

64	EXT. BEACH AND OCEAN - JOE'S POV - NIGHT			   64

A couple of stars vaguely twinkle overhead.  There's the
DULL BOOM of the SURF.


65	DOWN WHERE BEACH MEETS OCEAN - NIGHT				  65

Joe arrives at this spot and sits down in the sand.  He
looks out at the ocean, at the horizon, where the night
presses down on the water.  Time passes.  The sky gets
lighter.

MUSIC.

The VAGUE beginnings of something MAGICAL and very, very
big are heard.

A band of golden light hits Joe in the back of the head.
He turns around and it's in his eyes.  We see the fake
sun rising over a row of palm trees.  Just a touch of red
on the horizon.

The MAGICAL MUSIC CEASES.

But the sun continues to rise.  And rise.  Until it
clears the horizon and is a discreet orange-blue disk in
the morning sky.


66	INT. SUNNY RESTAURANT - DAY						 66

The sun turns into an orange-yellow yolk of a sunnyside-
up egg.  The CAMERA PULLS BACK.  Joe and Angelica are
eating breakfast.  Joe is dressed like Jungle Jim.

			  ANGELICA
	I'm so tired.  You take that
	stuff, it just ruins your
	sleep. I'm sorry I was so
	abusive, immature, hostile,
	and needy last night.

			  JOE
	You were fine.

			  ANGELICA
	I disappointed you.  So, what
	did Daddy hire you to do?

			  JOE
	It's real complicated.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  54.

66	CONTINUED:									   66

			  ANGELICA
	Okay. I don't even know where
	you're going on the boat.
	Patricia won't tell me.

			  JOE
	Who's Patricia?

			  ANGELICA
	She's my half-sister. She's
	the one who's sailing you
	wherever you're going.

			  JOE
	She is?

			  ANGELICA
	You didn't know?

			  JOE
	No.

			  ANGELICA
	Daddy loves a secret almost as
	much as he loves money.  Can I
	ask you something?

			  JOE
	What?

			  ANGELICA
	Why are you dressed like
	Jungle Jim?

			  JOE
	You think this is
	inappropriate? For the boat?

			  ANGELICA
	No, it's fine.  We'd better
	get going.  I gotta guy
	dropping your trunks off at
	the marina who may not have
	understood my travel
	directions.

They get up to go.


67	EXT. BIG MARINA - MANY BOATS LIKE RESTLESS HORSES - DAY	   67

At the end of a long narrow dock is a yacht about 7 feet
long.  It dwarfs all the other vessels.  We hear a CAR
DOOR SLAM and hear Angelica.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 55.

67	CONTINUED:  (AA1)								 67

			  ANGELICA (O.S.)
	Here we are.

Now we see Angelica and Joe approach the dock and start
walking down it.  We see them FROM the back and hear them
talking.

			  JOE
	Is that it?

			  ANGELICA
	Yeah.

			  JOE
	It's big.

They approach the yacht, which is called The Tweedle Dee.
It has on its hull a single arrogant eye that looks
haughtily at Joe.  On the dock by the yacht are the four
steamer trunks.  Sitting on a piling, staring balefully
at the trunks is a magnificent, athletic, truly feminine,
blonde, blue-eyed woman in her late twenties.  This is
PATRICIA.  On The Tweedle Dee two boat boys, MIKE and
TONY, ready the yacht for departure; they are young and
shining and strong.  Joe and Angelica arrive at the slip.
Patricia looks just like Dede and Angelica.  Joe does a
take.

			  JOE
		  (to Angelica)
	You say this is your half-
	sister?

			  ANGELICA
	Yeah.

			  PATRICIA
	What's the trunks, Felix?

			  JOE
	They're my... My name's not
	Felix, it's Joe.

			  PATRICIA
	I know.
		  (calling out)
	Mike!  Tony!  Find a place for
	these boxes.

Mike and Tony jump off the yacht and proceed to load the
trunks.

			  PATRICIA
	That outfit's wearing you,
	Felix.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. l/18/89			55A.

67	CONTINUED:  (Al)								  67

			  JOE
	Why are you calling me Felix?
	My name's Joe.

			  PATRICIA
	I'm calling you Felix because
	I do what I want.  Hello,
	Angelica.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  56.

67	CONTINUED:									   67

			  ANGELICA
	Hello, Patricia.

			  PATRICIA & ANGELICA
		  (simultaneously)
	Do you know where Daddy is?

			  PATRICIA (to Joe)
	We never know where our father
	is and we always suspect that
	the other one knows.  But it's
	all phone calls and telegrams,
	hey, Angelica?

			  ANGELICA
	Well, you're in a rotten mood.

			  PATRICIA
	It's the sunshine.  It gets me
	down.

The boat boys have finished bringing aboard the last
trunk.

			  ANGELICA
	Where are you going?

			  PATRICIA
	Can you believe it?  Dad said
	not to tell you.  Goes with my
	theory. Power makes you
	paranoid.

Mike calls out from the yacht.

			  MIKE
	All set.

Patricia hops off the piling.

			  PATRICIA
	Well, get ready to heave,
	Felix.

Joe gets angry.

			  JOE
	My name is Joseph or Joe.

Patricia deflates a bit.

			  PATRICIA
	Alright.  Joe.  Get ready.
	We're leaving.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 57.

67	CONTINUED:  (2)								   67

Joe turns to Angelica and speaks to her privately.

			  JOE
	'Bye.

			  ANGELICA
	'Bye.

			  JOE
	Listen.  Don't take drugs.

			  ANGELICA
	Okay.

			  JOE
	Wish me luck.

			  ANGELICA
	Good luck.


He takes her hand and gives her a little kiss on the
cheek.  She notes his hand.  She's puzzled.

			  ANGELICA
	You're shaking.

He smiles, examining his hand.

			  JOE
	Am I?  A little.
		  (looks at the land in
		  the distance behind
		  her)
	Yeah.

He runs up the gangway.  Patricia has already boarded the
boat.  The boat boys are casting off.  Patricia takes the
wheel.  But we are still WITH Angelica on the dock.  She
stands there.  Slowly, as the yacht pulls away, she
waves. Joe stands at the railing, the sails still furled
behind him.  He waves back.

Now we are WITH Joe on the yacht, at the railing.  He
waves a little, and then his eyes rove the shore.


68	JOE'S POV - SHORE - DAY							68

Joe looks at the flag on the stern of The Tweedle Dee. He
looks up from the flag at his departing homeland.  A
ghost image of the flag follows his glance up so that he
sees the following through that image.  He sees Angelica
on the dock, and then the boats behind her, and then the
parking lot behind that.  And then the hills in the
distance off to his left.  And the rich people's houses
off to his right.
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/21/89			 58.

68	CONTINUED:									   68

And cars on roads.  And a smokestack.  He sees all this
through the ghost image of that American flag.  He sees
his homeland.  Receding.  He's leaving his homeland.  He
will never see it again.  And now we see again:


69	JOE - AT RAIL - DAY							    69

Staring, moved, determined.  His clothes are a bit much,
but he almost fills them in this moment.  A wind comes up
and sweeps his safari hat off his head, into the ocean.
He flinches slightly at the loss.


70	HAT - DAY									    70

swirling away into the wake.  But now we see again:

71	JOE											71

And after a glance, he gives up the hat without regret.
He continues to look after the receding land.  Without
the hat he looks great.  His hair blows in the wind and
he stares and stares.

72	EXT. YACHT - FROM FEW HUNDRED YARDS AWAY - DAY		  72

The Tweedle Dee has cleared the harbor and the boat boys
have started unfurling the sails.  The huge, snowy sails
fill with a rich wind.

73	INT. YACHT - GALLEY - DAY						   73

The chef, a German named DAGMAR, is laying out lovely
nicoise salads. Tony awaits Dagmar's pleasure.

			  DAGMAR
	Have you put out the
	sunflowers, yet?

			  TONY
	Yeah.

			  DAGMAR
	Good! Go.

Tony picks up the salads and exits.

74	EXT. DINING TABLE - SUNSET						  74

Which is shaded by a canopy.  At the table sit Joe and
Patricia.  On the table are place settings, white wine,
and glasses.  Tony serves their plates and goes.

			  JOE
	Looks delicious.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89		  58A/59.

74	CONTINUED:									   74

			  PATRICIA
	We eat well aboard The Tweedle
	Dee.

			  JOE
	The Tweedle Dee?

			  PATRICIA
	That's the name of this boat.

			  JOE
	Oh.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  60.

74	CONTINUED:  (2)								   74

			  PATRICIA
	So we're going to the island
	of Waponi Woo.

			  JOE
	I guess so.

			  PATRICIA
	Why?

			  JOE
	You don't know?

			  PATRICIA
	No.

			  JOE
	Have you ever been there?

			  PATRICIA
	No.  All I know about Waponi
	Woo is that the name means
	'the little island with the
	big volcano,' and that the
	people, the Waponis, like
	orange soda.

			  JOE
	They like orange soda.

			  PATRICIA
		  (produces a book called
		  History of Polynesia)
	Yeah.  But here!  I've got a
	book. 'Eighteen hundred years
	ago, a Roman galley with a
	crew of Jews and Druids, got
	caught in a huge storm off
	Carthage.  They were swept a
	thousand miles off course, and
	ended up on the wrong side of
	the horn of Africa.  Thinking

	they were returning to Rome,
	they sailed deep into the
	South Pacific, and finally
	ended by colonizing a lightly
	populated, Polynesian island

	which they named Waponi Woo.
	Thus was born the Waponi
	culture - a mixture of
	Polynesian, Celtic, Hebrew and
	Latin influences.  The Waponis
	are known throughout Polynesia
	as having a peculiar love of
	orange soda and no sense of
	direction.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 3/13/89			60A.

74	CONTINUED:  (2A)								  74

			  JOE
	Why'd you talk to me so snotty
	back on the dock?

			  PATRICIA
	Because you work for my
	father. And I'm angry with my
	father.  But he's not around
	to give him a shot.  So you
	work for him, I give you a
	shot.

			  JOE
	Why you angry with him?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 1/15/89			 61.

74	CONTINUED:  (3)								   74

			  PATRICIA
	Because he's never around.

			  JOE
	If you're angry with him, and
	he's never around, why are you
	working for him?

			  PATRICIA
	I don't work for him.  My
	transport of you is strictly a
	favor.

			  JOE
	You do favors for people
	you're mad at?

			  PATRICIA
	I don't work for him!

			  JOE
	Alright.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  62.

74	CONTINUED:  (4)								   74

			  PATRICIA
	He said he'd give me this boat
	if I took you.

			  JOE
	Wow.

			  PATRICIA
		  (defensive)
	He's got two of them.  This is
	The Tweedle Dee.  There's a
	Tweedle Dum, too.

She gets up.  She's flustered.

			  PATRICIA
	I've got the wheel tied up,
	which is not good sailing.
	Excuse me.

She goes toward the stern.  Joe is left alone to finish
his supper.


75	EXT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - DAY						  75

is cutting through the blue.  The sun is setting.


76	EXT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - NIGHT						76

is anchored and lit up.  It's a dark and starless night.


77	INT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - CABINS - NIGHT				 77

Patricia is showing Joe his berth.  The whole interior of
the boat is made of beautiful wood.

			  PATRICIA
	Is this okay for you?

			  JOE
	Sure.


			  PATRICIA
	The boys like to sleep in the
	hull.  Dagmar sleeps on deck
	when the weather's good.  So
	you've pretty much got things
	to yourself. I'm in the little
	stateroom.

			  JOE
	Great.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 3/23/89			 63.

77	CONTINUED:									   77

But Patricia lingers.

			  PATRICIA
	I'm sorry I was so rude on the
	dock.

			  JOE
	That's okay.

She finished, but again she lingers, awkward.  Finally,
she blurts out.

			  PATRICIA
	Did you sleep with my sister?

			  JOE
	No.

			  PATRICIA
	Actually, she's my half-
	sister.

			  JOE
	No, I didn't.

			  PATRICIA
	Okay.
		  (again awkward)
	Do you like to fish?

			  JOE
	Sure.

			  PATRICIA
	Maybe tomorrow we'll do some
	fishing.

She goes to the entranceway and fingers a switch on the
wall.

			  PATRICIA
	This is the light switch.  Did
	Mike show you how to work the
	bathroom?

			  JOE
	Yeah.

			  PATRICIA
	Good.  Do you want me to turn
	off the light while I'm going?


			  JOE
	Okay.

							  (CONTINUED)
									64.

77	CONTINUED:  (2)								   77

She turns off the light.  Only the light from the
entranceway illuminates her now, and Joe is not visible.

			  PATRICIA
	I love my sister.  I know
	she's screwed up.  I love my
	father, even though I never
	see him and he's not so great
	when I do see him.  I'm very
	nervous about this trip.  My
	father didn't tell me anything
	and you don't seem to be
	telling me anything.  But it's
	more than that.  I've always
	kept clear of my father's
	stuff since I got out on my
	own.  Now he's pulled me back
	in.  He knew I wanted this
	boat and he used it and he got
	me working for him, which I
	swore I would never do. I feel
	ashamed because I had a price.
	He named it.  And now I know
	that about myself.  I don't
	know who you are.  I don't
	know anything about you.  But
	you're working for him, too,
	and that makes us two of a
	kind. I could treat you like I
	did back on the dock, but that
	would be me kicking myself for
	selling out.  Which isn't fair
	to you and doesn't make me
	feel any better. I don't know
	what your situation is.  But I
	wanted you to know what mine
	is.  Not just to explain some
	rude behavior.  But because
	we're on a little boat for a
	while and I'm soul sick and
	you're gonna see that.  Like
	my sister.  She's soul sick,
	too.  And if you'd slept with
	her I would've known something
	about you.  But you didn't.
	You didn't.  I believe you.

			  JOE
	I'm glad you believe me.

			  PATRICIA
	Have you ever slept on a boat
	before?

			  JOE
	No.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  65.

77	CONTINUED:  (3)								   77

			  PATRICIA
	It really affects your dreams.
	I look forward to it.  Even
	though, sometimes, the dreams
	really shake me up.  Okay.
	Good night.

			  JOE
	Good night.

She departs through the entrance way.  The light goes
out, and it's dark and quiet.


78	EXT. STERN OF THE TWEEDLE DEE - DAY				   78

It's a really beautiful sunny day.  Tony is at the wheel,
the sails are full and, sitting in two chairs hard by the
stern are Joe and Patricia.  They both are holding deep
sea fishing rods; they're trolling.

MUSIC.

"The Girl From Ipanema," the famous recording by Getz and
Gilberto, is playing now.

Patricia reels in her line.  A beautiful fish is flapping
on the end of it.  Joe reels in his line.  Nothing.  He
watches as Patricia unhooks her catch and tosses it in a
hamper.  Dagmar appears, looks in the hamper, and nods
approvingly.  Then she looks at Joe.  Where's Joe's fish?
Then he walks away again.  Joe casts again, while
Patricia rebates her hook.  Then Patricia casts again.
Mike arrives with a beer for Patricia, who accepts it.
Mike leaves.  Patricia gets another strike, asks Joe to
hold her beer, which he does.  She reels in another
beautiful fish.  She unhooks it and throws it in the
hamper.  Dagmar appears, looks in the hamper, nods
approvingly, and then looks at Joe.  Where's Joe's fish?
Joe looks at Dagmar, and then ignores her. Dagmar
departs.  Joe goes back to fishing.  Now Joe gets a
strike.  It's a big one!  The line goes burning out his
reel.  Patricia notices.  She offers to help him.  He
waves her off.  Dagmar appears.  She offers some advice.
But Joe's completely focused on his rod.  The rod, which
is substantial, starts to bend.  Mike comes back to
watch.  The rod is almost bent double.  Then it goes
madly to the left.  Offers of help are made, but Joe
shouts them back.  Then the rod goes madly to the right.
Dagmar runs OUT OF VIEW, and reappears with an enormous
gaff, which she brandishes excitedly.  A sudden powerful
tug almost pulls Joe off the back of the boat, but Mike
grabs him just in time.  Joe is a man possessed.  He
reels and pulls with superhuman determination.  Without
warning, a huge head, the head of a hammerhead shark,
appears at the stern.  Its eyes turn inboard and look at
Joe.  Everybody drops everything and runs away.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 66.

79	EXT. DINING TABLE - TWILIGHT						79

The sun has just sunk beneath the horizon's rim so
there's still all that sun setting light in the sky.  The
first evening star has appeared.  Joe and Patricia are
the last left at the dinner's end.  The bones of the fish
Patricia caught earlier are on a platter at the table's
center. Mike appears and removes the platter and a couple
of stray plates, and disappears into the galley.  There
are balloon glasses by Joe and Patricia's places and, by
Patricia, a bottle of cognac.

			  PATRICIA
	Do you like cognac?

			  JOE
	Cognac?

			  PATRICIA
	Yeah.

			  JOE
	I guess so.

			  PATRICIA
	I make a point of not knowing
	about certain things.  One of
	them's cognac. I like cognac.
	But I don't want the accepted
	wisdom about cognac, you know
	what I mean?  I mean I want
	glimpses of the myth about it.
	You see people drink it out of
	these big glasses, and
	smelling it forever.  That's
	interesting to me, that sight
	of them doing that. But I
	don't want them to talk to me
	about it, you know what I
	mean?  I want to figure it out
	based on what I've seen from
	other people, and what I
	personally get from it.

She opens the bottle and pours them both some.

			  PATRICIA
	So this is what I've got.  So
	far. To say about this:  Most
	cognac is French.  It's very
	volatile. Like gasoline or
	model airplane glue.  And when
	you taste it, in my opinion,
	it tastes like gasoline or
	model airplane glue. That's
	because it's for smelling
	really.  And I figure that's
	because the French,
	physically, tend to have big
	noses.  They get the pleasure
	of the cognac through the
	nose.
		    (MORE)
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 67.

79	CONTINUED:									   79

			  PATRICIA (CONT'D)
	You could really just smell it
	and pour it down the sink.
	But this isn't French cognac.
	This is Italian cognac.  It's
	probably generally considered
	inferior.  But the news is, it
	tastes good.  Maybe it doesn't
	smell as good -- it smells
	okay - but it tastes good.
	And when I came to that fork
	in the road, between the nose
	and the tongue, I chose the
	tongue.  So, here's to the
	tongue.
They toast.

			  JOE
	To the tongue.
They drink a little.

			  JOE
	It's good.  Don't the Italians
	have big noses, too?

			  PATRICIA
	Yeah.  And that really messes
	up my theory.


80	EXT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - NIGHT (HOUR AND A HALF LATER)		 80

We see it bobbing gently on the sea.  Many stars are
coming out, some waxing quite bright.  A half moon, pale
and small, hangs in the western sky.


81	EXT. DINING TABLE ABOARD BOAT - NIGHT				 81

Joe and Patricia have been talking and sipping cognac for
an hour and a half.  Patricia is quite mellow, as is Joe.

			  PATRICIA
	So my understanding, as far as
	I understand it, is I'm
	leaving you on this island.

			  JOE
	That's right.

			  PATRICIA
	How long are you going to stay
	there?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			67A.

81	CONTINUED:  (Al)								  81

			  JOE
	For the rest of my life.

			  PATRICIA
	Really.

							    (CONTINUED)
									68.

81	CONTINUED:									   81

			  JOE
	Yeah.

			  PATRICIA
	I can't imagine that.

			  JOE
	I couldn't have imagined any
	of this.

He looks at the stars.

			  JOE
	Are you used to this?

			  PATRICIA
	What?

			  JOE
	The ocean, the stars.

			  PATRICIA
	You never get used to it.  Why
	do you think I want this boat?
	All I want to do is sail away.

			  JOE
	Where would you go

			  PATRICIA
	Away from the things of man.

			  JOE
	Do you believe in God?

			  PATRICIA
	I believe in myself.

			  JOE
	What's that mean?

			  PATRICIA
	I have confidence in myself.

			  JOE
	I've done a lot of soul
	searching lately.  I've been
	asking myself some tough
	questions.  You know what I've
	found out?

			  PATRICIA
	What?

							    (CONTINUED)
									69.

81	CONTINUED:  (2)								   81

			  JOE
	I have no interest in myself.
	I think about myself, I get
	bored out of my mind.

			  PATRICIA
	What does interest you?

			  JOE
	I don't know.  Courage.
	Courage interests me.

			  PATRICIA
	You're going to spend the rest
	of your life on a tiny island
	in the South Pacific?

She pours them both a drink.

			  JOE
	Well, up till now I've lived
	on a tiny island called Staten
	Island, and I've commuted to a
	job in a shut up room with
	pumped in air, no sunshine,
	despicable people, and now
	that I've got some distance
	from that situation, that
	seems pretty unbelievable.
	Your life seems unbelievable
	to me.  All this like life,
	seems unbelievable to me.
	Somewhat.  At this moment.

			  PATRICIA
	My father says almost the
	whole world's asleep.
	Everybody you know, everybody
	you see, everybody you talk
	to.  He says only a few people
	are awake.  And they live in a
	state of constant total
	amazement.

They think about that for a while.

			  JOE
	I have less than six months to
	live.  The Waponis believe
	they need a human sacrifice or
	their island's going to sink
	into the ocean.  They have a
	mineral your father wants.
	He's hired me to jump in their
	volcano.

			  PATRICIA
	What?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/21/89			 70.

81	CONTINUED:  (3)								   81

			  JOE
	You're not going to make me
	say that again, are you?

			  PATRICIA
	No.

A silence falls.

			  JOE
	Aren't you going to say
	anything?

			  PATRICIA
	I don't know what to say.  You
	tell me you're dying, you tell
	me you're jumping into a
	volcano, my mind is a blank.

			  JOE
	I can understand that

			  PATRICIA
	Is this disease catching?

			  JOE
	No.

She gets up.  As she leaves she says:

			  PATRICIA
	Good night.  I'll see you in
	the morning.


82	INT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - SLEEPING BERTHS - NIGHT		  82

Joe enters, undresses to his new underwear, and climbs
into the berth.  Then he remembers the light, gets up,
turns it off, and climbs back into his berth.  It's dark.
We see his face.  He thinks for a moment, and then goes
to sleep.  And he has a dream.


82A    DREAM SEQUENCE								   82A

In utter darkness we hear Joe describe his dream.

			  JOE (V.O.)
	So I fell asleep and I had
	this dream.  I dreamed I was a
	cowboy in the wilderness.  I
	dreamed I was a cowboy and I
	saved this girl...

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/21/89			 71.

82A    CONTINUED:									  82A

Everything goes dead black.  There is the sound of WIND.
Then Joe's face suddenly lifts up out of the dream into a
CLOSEUP.  Startled, he bangs his head.  He has awakened
from his dream.

END OF DREAM SEQUENCE


83	OMITTED										 83
&													&
84												   84


85	INT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - JOE IN HIS BERTH - DAY		   85

It's the morning, though you can't see that in here. The
boat is rocking Joe around in his berth.  He looks
around, bewildered.  He realizes he was dreaming.  Then
he realizes the boat is rocking a lot.  He starts to get
up.


86	INT.  GALLEY AREA - DAY							86

Patricia is trying to get the weather on the RADIO, but
there's nothing but STATIC.  She puts on a set of
headphones and adjusts the dial again; the radio is
silent now, only she can hear it.  Joe comes into the
galley, his hair still rumpled from sleeping on it

			  JOE
	Little weird today, huh?

Patricia waves for him to be quiet.  She listens at the
phones another moment, adjusting the dial.  She hears
something.  She's glad.  She listens.  Her face darkens.
She tears off the phones angrily.

Dagmar appears in the hatchway.  She greets Joe.

			  DAGMAR
	There's a typhoon warning.
	Good morning, Mister Banks.

			  JOE
	Good morning.

			  DAGMAR
	Looks like we're in for a
	blow.

Joe exits.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/21/89			 72.

87	EXT. THE TWEEDLE DEE'S FORWARD DECK - DAY (OVERCAST)		 87

The ocean which until now has been blue, turns green.
Mike is tying up the sails, which have all been taken in.
Patricia comes up and starts to assist him.  A wind comes
up.  Patricia looks in the direction of the wind.  Joe
appears on the forward deck, near Patricia.

			  JOE
	Can I help?


			  PATRICIA
	Yeah.  You could tie that up.
	It feels dead, doesn't it?

			  JOE
	Yes.  It does.

			  PATRICIA
		  (yells)
	Mike, get below!  Start the
	engine.  Tell Tony to head us
	into the wind and keep us into
	the wind!

			  MIKE
	Okay.

Mike runs off to do her bidding.

			  JOE
	There isn't any wind.

			  PATRICIA
	There will be.

			  JOE
	Are you worried?


Patricia looks in the direction the wind is coming from.

			  PATRICIA
	I think we'll be Alright.  The
	hatches are down, the sails
	are down, we're ahead of the
	game.

88	PATRICIA'S POV - STORM COMING					    88

It's dark and it's big.


89	PATRICIA										89

still staring at the storm.  Joe looks where she is
looking.  The ENGINE CRANKS UP.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/21/89			72A.

89	CONTINUED:									   89

			  JOE
	What exactly is a typhoon?

			  PATRICIA
	You know, Joe, I think you're
	going to find out.

The shadow of the coming storm comes down the deck from
forward and envelopes them.


9O	OMITTED										 90


91	EXT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - DAY						  91

on the unhappy sea.  The sea has turned very dark,
perhaps even black.  The storm breaks with a rising wind,
a great BOOM of THUNDER, and a flash of lightning.  It
starts to rain, for a moment thinly, and then heavily.
White caps appear.  The Tweedle Dee begins to ride up and
down the high waves.  Its eye now has a frightened look.


92	EXT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - WHEEL						92

In the storm.  Mike and Tony wrestle with the wheel to
keep the bow into the wind.  They are pummeled by the
rain and wind.


93	INT. GALLEY									  93

In the storm.  Patricia is trying to send a distress
signal on the radio.  Joe watches.  Dagmar is absent.

			  PATRICIA
	Mayday, Mayday, Mayday,
	latitude 10 degrees, 8 minutes
	south, longitude approximately
	150 degrees, 18 minutes west.
	We are in severe distress.
	Mayday, Mayday, latitude 10
	degrees, 8 minutes south,
	longitude approximately 150
	degrees, 18 minutes west.

			  JOE
	What should I do?

			  PATRICIA
	Don't go on deck!  Check on
	Dagmar.  She went forward to
	look at the engine.


JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/21/89			 73.

94	INT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - HALLWAY					   94

In the storm.  Dagmar has just finished lifting the
floorboards and she's checking the gauges on the engine
with a flashlight.  Joe approaches.

			  JOE
	Everything okay?

			  DAGMAR
	Looks good, but I'm going to
	stay with it.


			  JOE
	Okay.

Joe departs.  A little water drips down on Dagmar.  She
looks up.


95	EXT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - WHEEL						95

In the storm.  A huge wave engulfs Mike and Tony.  They
disappear within the wall of the water, and then re
appear, still hanging onto the wheel.  This happens a
second time.  They withstand the onslaught.  Then Mike
sees something forward and points it out to Tony.  He
leaves Tony at the wheel and starts to crawl forward.
Lightning flashes nearby.


96	INT. GALLEY									  96

In the storm.  Patricia is still trying to get through on
the radio.

Joe looks out the cabin window and sees a fish swimming.
He is uneasy, but says nothing.

			  PATRICIA
	Mayday, Mayday!  Latitude 10
	degrees, 8 minutes south,
	longitude approximately 150
	degrees, 18 minutes west.
	Severe distress!  Severe
	distress!

She drops the mike as Joe enters.

			  PATRICIA
	No way is anybody getting
	this. How's Dagmar?

			  JOE
	She's fine.


							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/21/89		  74-76A.

96	CONTINUED:									   96

			  PATRICIA
	Good.

The hatch bursts open, Mike falls in amidst water and the
ROAR of the STORM.  He and Joe struggle and close the
hatch.

			  MIKE
	The main boom doesn't look
	secure!

			  PATRICIA
	What?

			  MIKE
	I think it's gonna bust loose.

Without another word, Mike goes back out the hatch again.
Joe shuts it behind him.  Patricia rips open a cabinet,
and pulls out a coil of nylon rope.

			  JOE
	What are you doing?

			  PATRICIA
	It's my boat.

She goes out the hatch.  Joe follows her.

JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  77.

97	EXT. THE TWEEDLE DEE							   97

In severe distress in the storm.  Patricia and Joe crawl
along the deck, battered by the raging typhoon. Patricia
looks up.


98	PATRICIA'S POV - MAIN BOOM						  98

There's too much play in it.  It's swinging from side to
side.  If it swings much longer, it's going to snap its
stays.


99	PATRICIA AND JOE								  99

continue to crawl toward it.  Patricia clutching the coil
of rope.  Lightning flashes.


100    EXT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - WHEEL					    100

In the storm.  Mike and Tony wrestling with the wheel and
being inundated with water.


101    INT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - DAGMAR AT ENGINE			   101

In the storm.  A little steady stream of water is
splashing on Dagmar, which she ignores.  She's adjusting
the timing of the engine with a fat screwdriver.


102    EXT. ERRANT BOOM - JOE AND PATRICIA				  102

In the storm.  With Joe's help, she starts to secure the
boom, but a sudden roll of the boat throws them back,
pinning them against a cabin wall.


103    ANOTHER ANGLE								    103

Joe and Patricia pinned against the wall.  The rain
pouring over their faces.  They are close, looking at
each other, panting, illuminated by lightning.  They
lunge toward each other, careless of danger, and
passionately kiss.  The kiss ends.  They look at each
other.  The boat rolls the other way, breaking the spell.
They are thrown toward the boom again.


104    BOOM										   104

At this moment, the boom breaks free.  Joe has fallen to
the deck, while Patricia is still standing.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 3/23/89			 78.

104    CONTINUED:									  l04

The boom swings over Joe and slams into Patricia,
knocking her unconscious and into the raging sea.  Joe
stands up and, still holding the coil of rope, dives into
the ocean after her.  A SLOW-MO stylized leap.


105    JOE										    105

in the raging sea looking for Patricia in the storm.  He
dives under the water once, twice, but he doesn't find
her.  He looks around desperate.  He sees something.


106    JOE'S POV - PATRICIA'S HAND						106

disappearing under the waves.  Illuminated in a single
flash of lightning.


107    JOE										    107


Swims and dives.  He pulls her up, so her head's above
the surface of the water.  She's unconscious and
battered.  A flash of lightning catches Joe's attention.
He looks.


108    EXT. THE TWEEDLE DEE - JOE'S POV					108

Lightning forks around the ship once, twice, and then the
third time it strikes.  A massive bolt that sunders the
yacht.  It's the same German expressionist's bolt as at
the beginning of the story:  ACHI's logo.


109    JOE										    109

Joe's stunned face illuminated by the great flash.  He is
holding the unconscious Patricia.


110    JOE'S POV - THE TWEEDLE DEE						110

sinking, in the storm.  The Tweedle Dee's eyes have
turned to Xs.  The yacht swamps and disappears beneath
the swirling waves.


111    JOE										    111

getting tired, holds Patricia's head above water.  He
accidentally swallows a gulletful of seawater, chokes,
splutters, and recovers himself.  But he's panting.  How
long can he hold on?  But then he sees something!
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 3/23/89			 79.

112    JOE'S POV - STEAMER TRUNK						  112

One of the steamer trunks bobbing.


113    JOE										    113

towing Patricia, starts swimming for the trunk.


114    ANOTHER ANGLE								    114

Joe reaches the trunk.  He grabs on to it gratefully,
recovers his breath, and then hoists Patricia as high up
on it as he can.  He takes the nylon rope and lashes her
to the trunk.  Then he gets a good grip on the trunk
himself, and braces against the storm.


115    JOE AND PATRICIA - DAY (LIGHTLY FOGGY)			    115

Joe and Patricia on the trunk.  Patricia is still
unconscious and Joe is asleep, exhausted.  The storm is
over, and the sky is overcast.  Joe blinks and wakes up.
He tries to wake Patricia.

			  JOE
	Patricia?  Patricia?

But she's out cold.  He looks around.  He sees something.


116    JOE'S POV - OTHER THREE STEAMER TRUNKS			    116

The sun shines through a crack in the clouds and lands,
sparkling, on the three other trunks which are floating
in the same area.  They are all that survived the
sinking.


117    JOE										    117

lights up upon seeing his trunks.  He tentatively moves a
little away from Patricia on her trunk and, satisfied
that she's not going to go under, he swims off.


118    ANOTHER ANGLE								    118

Joe arriving at one of the other trunks, grabs it by the
handle and starts towing it back towards Patricia's
trunk.



119    ANOTHER ANGLE								    119

Joe arriving at Patricia's trunk with the second.  He
lets it go and swims back for another.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 80.

120    ANOTHER ANGLE								    120

Joe towing the fourth trunk into proximity with the
others.  He takes out his Swiss Army knife and cuts some
rope from Patricia's truss.  He uses it to tie two of the
trunks together.


121    ANOTHER ANGLE - TWENTY MINUTES LATER				 121

Joe with three trunks tied together.  He is easing
Patricia's unconscious form on to the three ganged-
together trunks.  Having accomplished this, he slides the
fourth trunk into position with the other three and
begins to secure it with the remaining rope.  The four
trunks together make up a raft of ten feet square.  Joe
crawls onto the raft, totally exhausted, reaches out a
hand to the still form of Patricia, and passes out.  The
fog begins to thin.  A few shafts of sunlight dapple the
raft.


122    SUN										    122


The sun sets into the South Pacific and night begins to
fall.


123    EXT. LITTLE RAFT - NIGHT						   123

Under the stars, Joe and Patricia, he asleep and she
unconscious, lie unknowing under an enormous canopy of
stars.  The universe is great and they are small.


124    EXT. LITTLE RAFT - DAY							124

The little raft in bright, fresh sunlight.  Joe stirs and
wakes.  He tries to wake Patricia, but to no avail.  He
looks in all directions.  Nothing but blue horizon. After
a moment's thought, he opens one of the trunks. But it's
the wrong one.  He secures it and opens another. He takes
out a violin case and opens it; it's a bar masquerading
as a violin case, the one he bought at Hammacher
Schlemmer.  It contains two bottles of Moet champagne,
two champagne glasses and two bottles of Pellegrino
water.  Joe takes out one of the bottles of water and
closes the case.  Then he gets his little world-band
radio out of the trunk and sets it down.  He opens the
Pellegrino water and starts to drink.  But then he
thinks.  He looks at Patricia.  Her lips are a little
parched.  He looks up at the sun.


125    JOE'S POV - SUN								  125

The sun looks kind of powerful.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			 81.

126    JOE										    126

looks again at the bottle of water.  He decides not to
drink any.  He pours a little into the bottle cap, and
presses the cap to Patricia's lips.  He repeats the
process and then, satisfied, screws the cap on the bottle
again and puts it away in the case.  Then he puts the
case back in the trunk and fastens the lid.  He turns ON
the RADIO.  STATIC.  Turns the dial.  The VOICE of a
GERMAN ANNOUNCER speaks confidentially.  Joe turns the
dial.  A JAPANESE ANNOUNCER's VOICE solemnly intones a
short statement in Japanese ending with "Elton John." Joe
immediately switches the station.  The song "Goodbye
Cruel World" begins to play.  Joe sits listening for what
seems a long time.


127    EXT. LITTLE RAFT - NIGHT						   127

Joe is discovered with his ukulele, looking at the sky.
He is staring at the millions of stars overhead.  He is
full of wonder.  He is singing.  He is singing "The
Cowboy Song."

			  JOE
	Ee he o he-o cowboy
	Ee he o he-o oooo
	Ee he o he-o cowboy, cowboy,
	cowboy
	Under the moon

	I was riding my horse
	By the Rio Grand-ee
	And all the coyotes singin'
	In a prairie symphony
	I was ridin' my horse
	Down by the Rio Grand-ee
	When I seen me a cowboy,
	 cowboy, cowboy
	Ridin' towards me

	Ee he o he-o cowboy
	Ee he o he-o oooo
	Ee he o he-o cowboy, cowboy,
	cowboy
	Under the moon

	He was twirling his guns
	And he had a guitar
	And we sang us up a sweet old
	 song about love
	Under the stars
		    (MORE)

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89		    A81A.

127    CONTINUED:									  127

			  JOE (CONT'D)
	Ee he o he-o cowboy
	Ee he o he-o oooo
	Ee he o he-o cowboy, cowboy,
	cowboy
	Under the moon

	Giddyup


127A   EXT. LITTLE RAFT - DAY						    127A

Joe is chipping golf balls on his Hammacher Schlemmer
practice green.  Occasionally making a shot, occasionally
hitting one into the water.  One of the golf balls gets
tossed back onto the raft.  Joe looks.  There is a
mischievous DOLPHIN who LAUGHS and then submerges.

			  JOE
	Thank you.


127B   JOE SITTING ON RAFT - NIGHT					    127B

Joe is listening to the radio.  A Hawaiian disk jockey
comes on.  His name is PETE.


			  PETE (V.O.)
	This is K.R.U., Honolulu,
	speakin' ta ya from the shadow
	of the Koolau Mountains.  And
	here's one that was a hit when
	I was a kid. Sukiyaki.



The song "Sukiyaki," which became a pop hit in America,
even though it's sung in Japanese, begins to play.  Joe
is satisfied and lies back to listen.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			81A.

128    EXT. LITTLE RAFT - DAY							128

Radio is off.  Joe is trying out his aquatic shoes.  Just
trying his first tentative steps, he accidentally
punctures one of his shoes so it deflates.  He topples
over to one side.  He swims back to the raft, abandoning
his shoes.  He turns the RADIO ON, but it's only giving
out a little STATIC now.  He checks on Patricia, but gets
no response.  He tries to get something on the radio, but
the batteries are too weak now.  He turns it OFF.  He
notices he's sweating.  He shifts, knocking the radio in
the ocean.  Irritated, he looks up.
									82.

129    JOE'S POV - SUN								  129

The sun looms down, hot and white and huge.


130    JOE										    130

looks at the sun with concern.  He gets out the violin
case.  He gets the water out and fills the cap and
ministers to Patricia.  His lips are parched, but he
takes none for himself.  He takes off his now well-
seasoned safari jacket and puts it over Patricia, to
protect her from the sun.  We hear a sound, like the HISS
of something being SEARED in a SKILLET.


131    EXT. LITTLE RAFT - NIGHT						   131

Again, the sky is ablaze with stars.  They're even
brighter than previously.  Joe is looking at them.  He's
shaking.  He's got a fever.  He closes his eyes and then
opens them again.  He looks at the stars again.  And
shakes his head in disbelief.


132    JOE'S FEVERED POV - STARS						  132

What's this?  the stars are all connected together with
little pale blue lines, and over that are boldly visible
the astrological signs:  The Flying Horse, The Archer,
The Twins, etc.


133    JOE										    133

shakes his head, bewildered and amazed.  He blinks and
looks again.


134    JOE'S POV - STARRY NIGHT						   134

All of the lines and pictures are gone.


135    JOE										    135

looks and looks.  But no, they are gone.  It's just a
starry night.  He relaxes, closes his eyes, and quakes
with fever.


136    EXT. LITTLE RAFT - DAY							136

Joe, very ill with fever, checks the water supply.
There's a little less than half a bottle of water left.
His lips are deeply cracked.  But still he takes no water
for himself.  He looks up at the sun.  The sound of
SIZZLING.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 83.

137    SUN										    137

The sun burns down, bright and big.



138    JOE										    138

pours a capful of water and gives it to Patricia.  She is
still unconscious, but she looks pretty good.  It's Joe
that's really going down the tubes.


139    EXT. LITTLE RAFT - NIGHT						   139

We come in on Joe's face.  Joe quakes with fever.  Then
he sees something.  Joe is entranced by what he sees.


140    OMITTED										140

140A   JOE'S POV - NIGHT SKY							140A

The astrological signs have appeared in the sky again as
they did the night before.


141    JOE										    141

stares.  He's half mad with fever.  What is he seeing?


142    OMITTED										142

142A   JOE'S POV - NIGHT SKY							142A

The dome of astrological signs begins to rotate from
horizon to horizon so that the full panoply of the
ancient mythology is revealed.


143    JOE										    143

is frightened, moved.  His eyes fill with tears.


144    OMITTED										144

144A   SIGNS CONTINUE TO TURN						    144A


144B   JOE RUBS HIS EYES AND LOOKS AGAIN				   144B


144C   SKY - NIGHT									144C

The sky has returned to its ordinary self.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  84.

145    JOE										    145

wonders if he really saw the astrological signs.

146    EXT. LITTLE RAFT - DAY							146

Another scorching day under the sun.  Joe looks very bad.
He's got a fever.  He's slowly dying of thirst.  He gets
out the bottle, gives a capful to the still unconscious
Patricia, and then looks at the water level.  There's a
quarter of a bottle left.  He puts the bottle away.  He
crawls to the raft's edge and plunges his head in the
sea.  A dolphin sticks his head out of the water and
looks at Joe.  Joe lifts his head out of the water and
finds himself looking at a dolphin who is looking at him.
Man and fish are just a few feet apart.  They regard each
other.

			  JOE
	Hello.  My name is Joe.

  The DOLPHIN makes SOUNDS.  It could be talking.

			  JOE
	I'm dying.  Ahead of schedule.

The Dolphin disappears back beneath the water.  Joe
lowers his head and lies still.


147    EXT. LITTLE RAFT - NIGHT						   147

Again, it is a great starry night.  Joe, weak and sick
and bleary-eyed, looks up at the stars.  He closes his
eyes.  He opens them again.  Again, he is astonished.


148    JOE'S POV - HEAVENS							   148

All the lines and astrological signs are back, brilliant
and splendid.


149    JOE										    149

rouses himself, crawling to his knees to look.  He stares
in utter wonder.

The signs begin to rotate again.

MUSIC.

Earlier, in L.A. Joe stared at the horizon, just before
dawn, and big, magical music began to play.  But then it
stopped prematurely.  That MUSIC begins to play now, but
this time it does not stop.  It's the big, dramatic pas
de deux music from "The Nutcracker."

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 85.

149    CONTINUED:									  149

The astrological signs melt away into Disney dust as a
light appears at the horizon.


149A   ANOTHER ANGLE ON HORIZON						  149A

A light appears at the horizon's edge.


149B   ENORMOUS MOON								   149B

with slow majesty rises from the glittering sea, directly
to Joe's front.

Joe and his little raft are utterly dwarfed by this great
heavenly body.


149C   JOE ON HIS RAFT - NIGHT						   149C

Though he is on the verge of utter collapse he is so
moved by what he sees he clambers his way to his shaky
feet and raises his arms over his head in complete
reverence.  He is dwarfed.  He's a bug.  The raft is a
mote in the eye of God.  Joe is deeply moved, humbled,
awestruck.  The moon continues to ascend up and up and
out of view.


150    OMITTED										150
thru											    thru
151A											    151A


15lB   JOE										   151B

looks at the stars that are simply stars.  Sinking to his
knees, he presses his hands to his breast.

			  JOE
	Dear God, whose name I do not
	know, thank you for my life.
	I forgot how big... Thank you
	for my life

Joe slowly crumbles, physically crumbles from thirst and
fever and exhaustion.  His eyes dim.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 3/23/89			 86.

152    JOE'S POV - STARS								152

We watch the stars DISSOLVE, and BLACKNESS closes in.

Then the blackness starts to FADE, become rosy.  We hear
the sound of LABORED BREATHING.  WATER being POURED.
Someone COUGHING a little, CHOKING a little, and then
recovering.  Then we hear Patricia's voice.

			  PATRICIA (O.S.)
	Joe?  Joe?  Didn't you drink
	any water for yourself?  Joe?


153    JOE'S POV - LIGHT FOG - DAY						153

begins to clear. And there, above him, ministering to
him, is Patricia.  She has the bottle at his lips giving
him a little to drink at a time.


154    JOE'S HEAD - DAY (LIGHT FOG)					    154

is cradled in Patricia's arm. She has the bottle at his
lips.  He pushes it away, croaking weakly.

			  JOE
	That's for you.

			  PATRICIA
	How long have I been
	unconscious?

			  JOE
	I don't know.  Days.  You woke
	up.

			  PATRICIA
	I guess I did.

			  JOE
	Good.

She gives some more water over his weak resistance.  The
bottle has one more sip in it.

			  PATRICIA
	Finish this.

			  JOE
	No.  You need it.

			  PATRICIA
	I feel pretty good.  You look
	like shit.

			  JOE
	It's good to hear you talking.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 2/16/89			 87.

154    CONTINUED:									  154

			  PATRICIA
	C'mon, drink it.  Don't you
	wanna be in good shape for the
	Waponis?

			  JOE
	I'll never make it.

			  PATRICIA
	What are you talking about?
	Look.

She points.  Joe looks where she points.


155    EXT. TWO ISLANDS SIDE BY SIDE - FROM JOE'S POV - DAY		 155

One island is small and barren.  The other island sports
a big volcano.  A little steady stream of smoke issues
from the volcano's mouth.  We hear Patricia's voice.

			  PATRICIA (O.S.)
	It's a miracle.  We must've
	lucked into the right tidal
	current.


156    PATRICIA									    156

looks at Joe.  She makes him take the last sip of water.

			  PATRICIA
	What happened to the yacht?

			  JOE
	Struck by lightning.

			  PATRICIA

	No sign of Dagmar or the boys?

			  JOE
	Everything went under.

			  PATRICIA
	Except your trunks.

			  JOE
	Except my trunks.

He takes a look at the island.

			  JOE
	So that's Waponi Woo.


157    JOE'S POV - ISLAND						   l57
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 88.

158    ANOTHER ANGLE								    158

We FLY OVER the surface of the ocean TO the island.  TO:


159    ONE HILL ON ISLAND							    159

on which stands a lookout.  The lookout's name is EMO.
Emo is scanning the sea with an old telescope on a stand.
In his free hand, he holds a can of orange soda called
Jump.  He sips from this with great relish.  Then he
spots something with the telescope.  It's the raft!  He
carefully puts down his soda, cups his hands, and lets
out with a mighty formal cry.

			  EMO
	Ah bey!

 We now hear fifty voices answer from all over the island.

			  VOICES (O.S.)
	Ho!

			  EMO
	Ah bey!

			  VOICES (O.S.)
	Ho!

			  EMO
	Kimo Sabby Sah!

			  VOICES (O.S.)
	Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!


160    EXT. LITTLE RAFT - DAY							160

Joe and Patricia hear the cries and look at each other.

			  JOE
	What's that?

			  PATRICIA
	I think we've been spotted.


161    EXT. ISLAND - LONG STRETCH OF BEACH - DAY			 161

Outrigger canoes lay along the shore.  The EXCITED CRIES
of running NATIVES are heard approaching.  And now we see
them.  It's the Waponis!  They are a motley lot, used to
the good life.  They sport big orange dots on their fore
heads.  They carry fruit, garlands of flowers, and cans
of Jump.  They leap into their canoes and head out toward
the raft.  Their eyes are enhanced with liner.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 3/23/89			88A.

162    EXT. LITTLE RAFT - DAY							162

as the canoes reach it.  The leader of the welcoming
group, BAW, calls out to Joe in a formal way.

			  BAW
	Whooa!  Are you Joe?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 89.

162    CONTINUED:									  162

			  JOE
	Yeah.

			  WELCOMING GROUP
		  (impressed)
	Whooa!

			  BAW
	Are you Joe Banks?

			  JOE
	Yeah.

			  BAW
		  (to group)
	Pelica beeble bum bum!

The welcoming group goes crazy, showering the little raft
with a thousand flowers.  Joe and Patricia exchange a
look through the shower of flowers.

			  PATRICIA
	I guess they're glad to see
	us.

They're both handed cans of Jump.  Natives grab the pop
tops with their teeth and rip them off, smiling.  Joe and
Patricia drink from the cans of Jump.  All the natives
cheer.  Then hands reach out and pull them gently off
their raft and into the canoes.  Another canoe's
occupants get a grass rope and tie it to the raft.  Now
we see:


163    WHOLE FLOTILLA OF CANOES - DAY					  163

Joe and Patricia, and the whole welcoming group, covered
with flowers and drinking Jump, head for the island. With
the raft of trunks in tow.  The welcoming group, led by
Baw, sing a Polynesian "Song of Happiness."


164    EXT. SHORE OF ISLAND - DAY						 164

as the canoes arrive.  Upon reaching the shore, Joe and
Patricia are hoisted onto the shoulders of the natives
and carried inland.  Then we see other natives hoisting
the trunks onto their shoulders and following.
Everybody's singing.


164A   EXT. SHORE OF ISLAND - DAY						164A

Two guys hoisting an enormous spool of homemade red
carpet on a wooden yoke lead the way into the jungle
providing the "Red Carpet Treatment."

JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			89A.

164B   EXT. STRETCH OF JUNGLE - DAY					   164B

The red carpet unrollers run through a stretch of Jungle.
Through a thin veil of greenery we see unrollers pass by
us on a jungle path.  After a second they are followed by
Joe and Patricia and the full happy entourage.


165    EXT. CENTER OF VILLAGE - DAY					    165

Exhausted, our carpet men, their spindle all but spent,
stumble into the village's center.  Their carpet reaches
its tail.  They drop to the ground, gasping and proud.
The welcoming group arrives with Patricia and Joe and the
whole village turns out and goes nuts.  Some of them
carry ducks.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 90.

165    CONTINUED:									  165

Then from the biggest hut emerges the CHIEF.  Instantly,
everything stops and all the natives are lying face down
on the ground, utterly silent.  Only Joe and Patricia are
left standing to face the Chief.  The Chief is a big,
impressive man with grey hair and in totally traditional
native costume.  Most of the other natives have some
element of Western dress about their person.  The Chief
has a sad, rich voice, a voice full of memory and
knowledge.  He holds a tiki teddy bear.  It has atrophied
little arms and legs; its hair is standing on end.

			  JOE
	What is that?  A teddy bear?

			  CHIEF
	No.  It is my soul.

			  JOE
	I hope you don't lose it.

			  CHIEF
	So do I.  I am Tobi.  Chief.

			  JOE
	This is Patricia Graynamore.
	I'm Joe Banks.  You speak
	English.

			  CHIEF
	I have learned.  You have come
	to stop the anger of the Woo?

The Chief points upward.  Joe looks where he points.


166    FROM JOE'S POV - VOLCANO (BIG WOO) - DAY			  166

Smoke issues from the mouth of the Big Woo steadily.


167    JOE										    167

looks away from the volcano.  He looks into the eyes of
the chief.


			  JOE
	Yes.

			  CHIEF
	There was worry that you would
	not come.  You were to come
	before this.

			  JOE
	Well.  I'm here now.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			90A.


167    CONTINUED:  (A1)								 167

The Chief nods sadly.  He looks at Patricia.

			  CHIEF
	You're with him?


			  PATRICIA
	Yes.

The Chief nods sadly.

							    (CONTINUED)
									91.

l67    CONTINUED									   167

			  CHIEF
	Tonight, we will have a big
	feast. And then, at the end of
	the feast, we will climb to
	the top of the Big Woo, and
	you will jump in. Okay?

			  JOE
	Okay.

			  CHIEF
	The women will take this woman
	and make her clean for the
	feast.
		  (shouts to the native
		  women)
	Pelica!  Pelica!

The native women rise quickly to their feet, giggling and
excited, and make off with Patricia.  She calls out as
she's taken.

			  PATRICIA
	Joe!

			  JOE
	Patricia!  Is she gonna be
	Alright?

The Chief nods wearily.

			  CHIEF
	And the men will take you and
	make you right for the feast.
		  (shouts to the native
		  men)
	Oliva!  Oliva!

The native men leap up with a shout, seize Joe, and carry
him off.  Other native men follow, carrying the trunks.
The Chief, weary, heads back inside his hut.


168    EXT. CLEARING - DAY							   168

which has been set up to clean Joe.  What can only be
described as a giant bassinet made out of beautiful, soft
greenery has been set up in the clearing, along with many
coconut bowls.  Into this a violently protesting Joe,
stark naked, is being pressed by the laughing native men.
They dump many bowls of water over him while he
desperately tries to hide his genitals, first with his
hands, and then by turning face down in the bassinet.
Then the men take mounds of fresh fruit that has been cut
up and rub it into Joe's flesh.  Then six of the native
men produce big shining fish.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			 92.

168    CONTINUED:									  168

They hold these fish by the tails.  Other men hold Joe
still.  Then the men rhythmically beat Joe with the fish.
They hum to keep time.  They are giving him a massage. At
first he reacts by screaming, but then he starts to
groan, as one does from an important massage.


168A   EXT. CLEARING - DAY							  168A

One of the natives holds forward a tray covered with a
thin blue material.  Joe looks at it with interest.  The
native gently, physically closes Joe's eyes, then blows
the contents of the tray, a thin, bright blue powder
directly into Joe's face.  Joe opens his eyes, a wiser
man.  They lick the powder off his face.


169    EXT. CLEARING - DAY (WHILE LATER)

They are dousing Joe with water again, only he's sitting
up now, eating a piece of fruit.  Emo, the lookout,
offers him a Jump, but Joe shakes his head.  Emo looks
amazed and comments to the others in a low voice, in
another language.  Their reply to Emo's comment is a low
Whoa!; they are incredulous.  Then they go back to
dousing Joe.  He likes this treatment by now.  Then a
look of concern passes over his face and he looks down.


170    FROM JOE'S POV - JOE'S BARE FEET					170

Two natives are chewing the toenails on his two feet.


170A   BACK TO SCENE								   170A

			  JOE
	Hey, stop that!

The two natives look at him blankly, and go back to what
they're doing.  Joe accepts it.  Another native is
massaging his scalp, adding a little oil to Joe's hair.
The native combs the hair with his fingers.  Joe's
starting to look like his old self.  Something on the
edge of the clearing catches his eye.


171    FROM JOE'S POV - FOUR STEAMER TRUNKS				 171

A little stained with salt, but otherwise none the worse
for wear.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			92A.

172    JOE										    172

looking at the trunks, gets an idea.


173    EXT. ANOTHER CLEARING - DAY						173

Patricia is near the end of a make-over by the native
women.  They are adorning her freshly-washed hair with
beautiful flowers, and wrapping her sparkling body in a
pretty sarong.

JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/25/89			 93.

174    EXT. SUN									    174

sets behind the Big Woo.


174A   EXT. BONFIRE - NIGHT							 174A

Going full blast in the village.  MUSIC.


175    EXT. VILLAGE									175

Fire plays on Patricia's face, as she's escorted by four
village women into the village feast.


176    PATRICIA'S POV								   176

Handheld, as she walks through the village.


176A   ON PATRICIA (INTERCUT)						    176A

As she's led through village.

			  PATRICIA
	Where's my friend?


177    PATRICIA'S POV - HANDHELD						  177

			  PATRICIA
	Where's Joe Banks?

a.  Men dancing on dusty drums.
b.  Natives criss-cross jumping over fire, with the band
in the b.g.
c.  A pig on a spit over a fire.


177A   ON PATRICIA (INTERCUT)						    177A

As she's led through the village.

			  PATRICIA
	Is my friend here?


178    PATRICIA'S POV - HANDHELD						  178

a.  Fire-eaters on either side of a small volcano.

The MUSIC changes to a new cue: the drum vamp.

b.  The Fire-God emerges from the small volcano.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/25/89			93A.

179    PATRICIA									    179

She reacts and looks at:



180    EXT. VILLAGE - BAW - NIGHT						 180


Baw comes into the playing area, a half-moon circle of
natives.  He clicks the sticks of his fingers.  He looks
side-to-side, sternly, with his hands on his hips and
cries out.

			  BAW
	Oliva!

This is the cue for the story-telling MUSIC to begin.
Baw does a little Waponi dance in a tight circle, as he
recites.

			  BAW
	A whila way Waponi Woo
	I sangda wangda offda blue
	I sangda wangda and I aw saw
	The whorl in all a raw
	dindour!
	Meckalecka?
	Yapa
	Yapaya
	Yapa
	Yapaya
	Yapa
	Yapaya
	Sup up vulca

The women scream.

			  BAW
	Terra not firma.
	To take to Tobi, put the
	pants!

The men cheer and Baw picks up the Tiki doll to hand it
to the Volcano God who then goes back into the volcano.


181    INT. VILLAGE - NIGHT							  181


Patricia is standing.  Everyone else is BELOW FRAME and
there is dead silence.


182    PATRICIA'S POV - CHIEF - NIGHT					  182

He's decked out, and he sits in his chair.  His Tobi is
in another and there are empty chairs on each side.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/25/89			 94.

182A   PATRICIA									   182A

is gestured to sit in the chair on the Chief's left.


182B   TWO SHOT									   182B

			  CHIEF
	You look good, now.

			  PATRICIA
	Thank you.

			  CHIEF
	Joe Banks said your name is
	Graynamore.

			  PATRICIA
	Yes, it is.

			  CHIEF
	I've had talks with Samuel
	Harvey Graynamore.

			  PATRICIA
	He's my father.

The Chief nods sadly.

			  CHIEF
	Your father is like the Big
	Woo. He must be fed or he will
	destroy the world.

			  PATRICIA
	Do you know where my friend,
	Joe Banks, is?

			  CHIEF
	Maybe he ran away?  Maybe he
	don't want to jump in the Big
	Woo. Maybe he's swimming to
	someplace else.  Maybe he swam
	to that no good island over
	there.

The Chief now calls to the natives.

			  CHIEF
	Oliva! Oliva! Bum bum bum.


183    EXT. VILLAGE - NIGHT							  183

Two natives swing on grass ropes, from the TOP of the
FRAME.  They pass each other on their way to the gongs
which hang at either end of the frame.  They slam into
the gongs and then fall into two little broken piles.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev . 8/25/89			95.

183A   THE CHIEF									  183A

He reacts.


183B   EXT. VILLAGE - NIGHT							 183B

Back to the gong scene (but under cranked) as the
stretcher bearers carry the men away and big drums are
upended and rolled away in the wake of the stretchers -
off to the right.


183C   EXT. VILLAGE - NIGHT							 183C

The natives all rise and face Woo and sing.

			  NATIVES
	Wo-o-o-o-o.


183D   EXT. VOLCANO								    183D

It erupts.


183E   CHIEF										 183E

			  CHIEF
	The Woo wants his flesh!


183F   EXT. VILLAGE - NIGHT							 183F

Natives react and scream and the screams turn to cheers,
as we --

					   CUT TO-


184    JOE BANKS									   184

He appears at the top of a grand staircase.  He descends
(as the MUSIC resumes).

The crowd faces him and cheers, as they turn with him as
he walks across to the Chief and stands before him.

			  CHIEF
	So.  You didn't run away.

			  JOE
	No. I made a deal and I'll
	stick by it.

The Chief nods sadly.  Joe sits down in the third chair.

			  JOE
	How do you like my tux?
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/25/89			95A.

184    CONTINUED:									  184

			  PATRICIA
	Pretty great.

			  JOE
	I thought I might as well go
	out in style.

			  PATRICIA
	You're really going to do it?

			  JOE
	Yeah.

Joe and Patricia have been talking across the Chief,  who
sits between them.  Now a groaning native, holding his
jaw, comes forward and, after prostrating himself, speaks
excitedly to the Chief, addressing him as Tobi, and
continuing in another language.  The Chief listens and
then waves him away.  The groaning native departs.

			  PATRICIA
	What's wrong with that man?

			  CHIEF
	His teeth have holes in them
	from drinking orange soda.
	Jump.

The Chief hates Jump.

			  JOE
	What did he want you to do
	about it?

			  CHIEF
	There are those who want a man
	who will fix the holes.

			  PATRICIA
	A dentist

			  CHIEF
	Yes.

The Chief hates this idea.  The VOLCANO THUNDERS again.
This time it shakes the ground a little.  They look.


185    CHIEF AND COMPANY'S POV - BIG WOO - NIGHT			 185

The volcano lets out with two tongues of flame this time,
and a shower of sparks.

JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/25/89			 96.

186    CHIEF AND COMPANY - NIGHT						  186

looking at volcano.  The Chief then looks at Joe.

			  CHIEF
	Joe Banks.  We are the
	children of children and we
	live as we are shown.  Now a
	change has come. The Waponis
	like this soda, and no one
	among my people will jump into
	the Big Woo.  They trade with
	this man, your father, for a
	hero.  We have no hero-of our
	own.  So we give this man the
	right to dig holes in the
	ground under us like the Jump
	digs holes in our teeth and in
	some short time we will be
	nothing but holes.  I am the
	Tobi. I cannot be the hero.
	It is my place to hope for my
	people.  But the Woo calls and
	no one from among my people
	says, I will go to my end for
	the rest of you.  Joe Banks.
	We are not your people.  Let
	us die. Take a boat and your
	woman and go to that no good
	island over there.
		  (jerks his thumb)
	Don't jump in the Big Woo.

			  JOE
	I have no people of my own,
	Chief. I'm my only hope for a
	hero.

The BIG WOO THUNDERS AGAIN -  they all look.

  The feast grows quiet and somber.

			  CHIEF
	Once more I'll call among the
	Waponis for a hero.

The Chief stands.  The Waponis abase themselves.  The
Chief speaks to them solemnly.

			  CHIEF
	Who knew woe sue-weigh?
	Who knew woe?
		  (he waits; as no one
		  moves; he calls out
		  once more)
	Drama said, said sue-weigh?
		  (he waits; as no one
		  moves; he is disgusted
		  with them; he speaks
		  with finality and
		  dismissal)
	I na box, bum, pelica.  Box.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/25/89			 97.

186    CONTINUED:									  186

The Waponis slowly get up, shamefaced.  The Chief sits.
He speaks to Joe and Patricia.

			  CHIEF
	They are all afraid to die.
	There is no hero among them.
	They deserve to die.

Joe stands.

			  JOE
	Take me to the volcano.

Natives cheer.  They form an aisle again, leading off in
the direction of the Big Woo.  Flaming torches dot the
aisle.  The natives start the same call and response they
had going when Joe's raft was first sighted.  Emo calls
and the natives respond.  This call and response
continues through all the following.  Joe walks off, down
the aisle.  The Chief follows him.  Before Patricia can
follow the Chief, the crowd closes in, following Joe up
the mountain.  Patricia tries to reach Joe.


186B   EXT. VILLAGE - NIGHT							 186B

			  PATRICIA
	Joe!  Joe!

But she can't be heard above the din of the call and
response.  She's restrained by the women in the village.


186C   EXT. FOOT OF TRAIL - NIGHT						186C

A head torch man leads the way up the mountain path.  He
carries a heavy, lit torch that he swings from side to
side with a ritual motion.  With each swing he lights
another permanent tiki sconce along the path's upward
progress.  He is followed by Joe, dapper and alone.  Joe
in turn is followed by the Chief, who walks with a ritual
movement, not unlike the bent-kneed gait of a Sumo
wrestler, leaning first on one leg then on the other.  He
is assisted in this gyration by two lackeys, one to his
left, one to his right, who catch him as he leans to his
most extreme angle and gently shoves him back the other
way.  Behind the Chief, comes the general native
population all of whom carry torches.


186D   WHOLE VILLAGE - PATRICIA' S POV					186D

is going up the trail, with Joe and the Chief at the head
of the column.  Some of the natives carry ducks.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 8/25/89		  98-98A.

187    EXT. SIDE OF BIG WOO - TRAIL - NIGHT				 187

Flaming torches now delineate the trail up the mountain.
The line they describe looks very like a German
expressionist version of a lightning bolt.  The Big Woo
is RUMBLING more and more.  The whole sky over the
mountain is suffused with red.


187A   OMITTED									    187A


188    EXT. WITHIN COLUMN - NIGHT						 188

Patricia struggles.  She's slowly struggling up the
length of the column.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			  99.

188    CONTINUED:									  188

She's starting to get hysterical.

			  PATRICIA
	Joe!  Joe!  Don't do it!
	Don't do it!


189    EXT. HEAD OF COLUMN - JOE AND CHIEF - NIGHT		    189

They are silent and solemn and focussed.  They arrive at
a spot just below the rim of the volcano.  There is a
little well worn trail leading from they stand to where
the rim.

			  JOE
	Is there any ceremony or
	anything?

			  CHIEF
	No.  You just jump in.

Joe nods.  Patricia breaks through the crowd and throws
herself at Joe's feet.  She's sobbing.

			  PATRICIA
	Don't do it!  Please don't do
	it, Joe!  I love you!  I've
	fallen in love with you!  I've
	never loved anybody!  I don't
	know how it happened!  And
	I've never even slept with you
	or anything and now you're
	going to kill yourself!

Joe pulls her to her feet.  The Chief takes a step away,
to give them privacy.

			  JOE
	You love me?

			  PATRICIA
	Yes, I love you!  I can feel
	my heart!  I feel like I'm
	going crazy!  You can't die
	and leave me here on this
	stinking earth without you!

			  JOE
	I've got to do it.

			  PATRICIA
	Why?  The Chief doesn't even
	want you to do it.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev . 6 / 2 / 8 9		100.

189    CONTINUED:									  189

			  JOE
	'Cause I've wasted my whole
	life.  And now I'm going to
	die.  I've got a chance to die
	like a man and I'm going to
	take it!  I've got to take it!

			  PATRICIA
	I love you!

			  JOE
	I love you, too.  I've never
	loved anybody, either.  It's
	great. I'm glad.  But the
	timing stinks.

Joe kisses her, waves to the Chief, and starts to walk up
the little path.  The natives are silent, staring.  The
Chief is sad.  Patricia is rooted, staring after him,
stricken.  When Joe has just about reached the summit,
Patricia wakes from her trance, and bolts up the little
path after him.


189A   EXT. UNDERSIDE OF PLATFORM - NIGHT				  189A

Throughout the following, occasionally we CUT TO a carved
wooden figure of an alarmed but committed little man, who
is under the platform holding it up.  Of course, he's
actually an inanimate strut, but as his little knees
quake ever more violently under the platform's oppressive
weight, we fear for the moment when he and therefore the
platform on which Joe and Patricia stand will give way
and fall into the volcano.


190    LITTLE SHELF ON MOUTH OF WOO - PATRICIA AND JOE - NIGHT	   190

Behind them are flames and sparks and smoke.

			  PATRICIA
	Joe!

			  JOE
	Get out of here!  Go back
	down!

			  PATRICIA
	No.

			  JOE
	Please let me do what I've got
	to do!

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89		    100A.

190    CONTINUED:  (A1)								 190

			  PATRICIA
	Marry me!

			  JOE
	What!

			  PATRICIA
	Marry me!

She shouts down the hill.

			  PATRICIA
	Chief!  Chief!  Could you come
	up here, please?

			  JOE
	What the hell are you doing?

							    (CONTINUED)
								    101.

190    CONTINUED:									  190

			  PATRICIA
	I want him to marry us.

			  JOE
	I'm jumping into a volcano!

			  PATRICIA
	So marry me and then jump into
	the volcano.

The Chief arrives.

			  CHIEF
	What?

			  PATRICIA
	Could you marry us?

			  CHIEF
	Okay.

			  JOE
	I don't want to get married!

			  PATRICIA
	What's the problem? You afraid
	of the commitment?  You'll
	have to love me and honor me
	for about thirty seconds!  You
	can't handle that?

			  JOE
		  (to the Chief)
	Alright.  Marry us.

			  PATRICIA
	Thank you!

			  JOE
	You're welcome!

			  CHIEF
	Do you want to marry her?

			  JOE
	Yes!

			  CHIEF
	Do you want to marry him?

			  PATRICIA
	Yes!

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			 102.

190    CONTINUED:  (2)								  190

			  CHIEF
	You're married.

			  PATRICIA
	Thank you, Chief.

			  CHIEF
	I'm going now.


The Chief leaves.  The volcano has been ROARING LOUDER
and LOUDER.  Joe stares into it.

			  PATRICIA
	Don't jump in.

			  JOE
	I want you to listen Patricia,
	because these are my last
	words.  I gotta be brave. I
	gotta jump in.

He braces to jump.  She lifts her hands.  She hesitates.
Courage floods her soul.  She completes the gesture for
the first time.

			  PATRICIA
	I'm jumping in with you.

			  JOE
	Oh no you're not'

			  PATRICIA
	Whither thou goest!

			  JOE
	I'll knock you out!  I'll
	throw you down!

			  PATRICIA
	And take away my freedom of
	choice?

			  JOE
	Why do you love me?

			  PATRICIA
	On the raft.  You gave me the
	water.  No one's ever put my
	life ahead of theirs.  So I
	love YOU and I'm jumping into
	this volcano with you!

			  JOE
	Did I ever tell you that the
	first time I saw you, I felt
	like I'd seen you before?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			 103.

190    CONTINUED:  (3)								  190

She shakes her head.  They kiss.  There's a big
EXPLOSION.  The ground shakes.  They lose their balance
and grab each other.  There's a second EXPLOSION.  He
loses his balance.  She catches him.

			  JOE & PATRICIA
	Whoa!  Whoa!


			  JOE
	This is it!

They look at each other.  They jump in. A SLOW-MO
stylized leap.  Right after they jump in, the platform
slides into the volcano.



191    WHOLE ISLAND - NIGHT							  191

Which looks like a face.  The face grimaces.  We hear a
GASTRONOMIC GROAN.  Then the volcano spits out Joe and
Patricia who are holding hands.


192    JOE AND PATRICIA - NIGHT						   192

rocketing

Against a background of fire and EXPLOSIONS, come
rocketing RIGHT AT us and BY the CAMERA.


193    CHIEF AND HIS PEOPLE - NIGHT					    193

They watch Joe and Patricia, out of view, go by overhead.
The Waponis scream and take off down the hill.  The Tobi
smiles and stays.  He speaks to the Woo.

			  CHIEF
	So. You did not want them.
		  (to the retreating
		  natives)
	I won't go to that no good
	island!
		  (to himself)
	For me, this is the end.


JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			104.

194    JOE AND PATRICIA - NIGHT						   194

leaving a trail of smoke, land in the ocean.

			  JOE
	What happened?

			  PATRICIA
	It just spit us back out
	again. Joe, we're rejects!

			  JOE
	Well, I did it.  I did it.  I
	did my job.  I jumped into the
	volcano.  We jumped into the
	volcano.


195    STRETCH OF BEACH WITH BOATS - NIGHT				  195


The Waponis grab their ducks under their arms, grab their
boats and launch themselves.


195A   OMITTED									    195A


196   JOE AND PATRICIA - NIGHT


in the water

			  PATRICIA
	Look!


196A   OMITTED									    196A


197    JOE AND PATRICIA'S POV - NIGHT					 196A

We see the Waponis fleeing the exploding island, heading
for the lousy island.


198    EXT. VOLCANO - NIGHT							  198

The VOLCANO EXPLODING completely.  The whole island is on
fire and breaking apart.


199    JOE AND PATRICIA								 199

watch while paddling.



200    EXT. ISLAND OF WAPONI WOO - NIGHT				    200

The island is sinking.  The Waponis are fleeing.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89		    104A.

201    JOE. AND PATRICIA								201

looking at this amazing sight.

			  JOE
	So the Waponis were right.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			105.

201    CONTINUED:									  201

			  PATRICIA
	What do you mean?

			  JOE
	They said if there wasn't a
	sacrifice, their island would
	sink.  And it did.

Joe and Patricia exchange looks.  Then Patricia looks
past Joe, seeing something.

			  PATRICIA
	Oh my God, look!  Look!

Joe looks where she's looking.


202    EXT. YACHT - NIGHT							    202

A yacht just like the one they were on.  This yacht has
friendly eye of another color.


203    JOE AND PATRICIA								 203

in the water.

			  JOE
	A boat!

			  PATRICIA
	It's The Tweedle Dum!
		  (shouts)
	Ahoy!  Ahoy!
		  (to Joe)
	Come on!

They start to swim.
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89		    105A.

204    EXT. THE TWEEDLE DUM - NIGHT					    204

Picking up Joe and Patricia.  Patricia's crew is on
board, that is Dagmar and the boat boys.

			  PATRICIA
	It's my crew!  They're alive!

			  DAGMAR
	We were saved.

			  PATRICIA
	That's wonderful!  That's
	amazing!

			  DAGMAR
	We were very lucky.

JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			106.

205    EXT. STERN OF THE TWEEDLE DUM - NIGHT				205

Graynamore is watching the island sink through a
telescope.  Meanwhile, two boat boys wrap Patricia and
Joe in blankets.  Graynamore, oddly calm and detached,
given the circumstances, looks away from the eyepiece of
the telescope.  He says to no one in particular.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	There goes my dream of beating
	the shit out of the
	competition.

			  PATRICIA
	Daddy?

Graynamore ignores her.  During this scene the island is
slowly sinking in the b.g.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	You kept your bargain, Mr.
	Banks. To the letter.  The
	miracle of course is that you
	kept the bargain and you're
	alive.

			  JOE
	So what?  My number's about up
	one way or the other.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Yes.

He's a trifle uneasy.

			  PATRICIA
	Daddy?

			  GRAYNAMORE
	I thought you were dead, young
	lady.  I thought you drowned.
	Both of you for that matter.
	I just got here to see what
	kind of alternate deal I could
	cut with the Chief.  But the
	Chief, I'm afraid, is history.

			  PATRICIA
	You don't show any sign of
	being glad I'm alive.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Oh, I'm glad.  I'm just
	disappointed about losing
	these mineral rights.  It
	meant a lot to me.  It was a
	real opportunity.

			  PATRICIA
	You are so... full of holes.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			 107.

205    CONTINUED:									  205

Graynamore looks at her, a little irritated and puzzled.
But then his attention shifts to Joe.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	This is a small boat, Mr.
	Banks. Too small to keep a big
	secret all the way back to
	L.A.  Come out, Kenneth!

Kenneth emerges from the shadows where he's been
skulking.  It's Dr. Ellison; the doctor who told Joe he
was going to die.  He's got a drink and he looks nervous.

			  JOE
	Dr. Ellison.

			  KENNETH
	Or words to that effect.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	His name is Kenneth Hindmick.
	Business Affairs.  He works
	for me.

			  KENNETH
	Hi.  Need your taxes done?

			  JOE
	Kenneth Hindmick.

			  KENNETH
	Need any terrible job done?
	I'm your man.

			  JOE
	Not Dr. Ellison.

			  KENNETH
	Kenneth Hindmick.  I'm not a
	bad guy, really.  I just have
	an unfortunate tendency to do
	what I'm told.

Joe nods numbly.

			  PATRICIA
	Joe?

			  JOE
	His name is Kenneth Hindmick.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	And he made believe he was a
	Dr. Ellison.
		    (MORE)
							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			 108.

205    CONTINUED:  (1A)								 205

			  GRAYNAMORE (CONT'D)
	And he told Joe here that he
	had something called a brain
	cloud, and that he was going
	to die. So that Joe here would
	agree to jump in the volcano.

			  PATRICIA
	Oh!  That's dastardly.  You're
	both dastards.

Joe, still focused on Hindmick, pushes her aside.

			  JOE
	I don't have a brain cloud?

			  KENNETH
	No, you don't have anything.
	You're just a hypochondriac.
	Sorry.  Or, looking on the
	bright side, congratulations!

Joe takes a step for Kenneth.

Kenneth takes out a gun and points it shakily at Joe.

			  JOE
	You know, I'm gonna beat you
	up!


			  KENNETH
	Hold it!  Don't make me kill
	you when there's nothing wrong
	with you!  I feel bad enough
	already.  I told you he'd be
	mad.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	So we'll just take turns
	watching him till we get back
	to L.A. Nobody'll believe his
	story anyway.

			  PATRICIA
	I will.  I'll back him up.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Now, Patricia, when we get
	back, I'm going to give this
	boat to you, and you can sail
	off into the distance with it
	and be done with us all.

			  PATRICIA
	No deal.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			108A.

205    CONTINUED:  (1B)								 205
			  GRAYNAMORE
		  (talking to Kenneth)
	So we'll take turns watching
	the two of them till we get
	back to L.A., and then we'll
	turn them both loose, and I'll
	keep the boat.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			109.

205    CONTINUED:  (2)								  205

			  PATRICIA
	That's fine with me.

			  JOE
	You've forgotten one thing.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	Oh, I have?  Nothing comes
	readily to mind.

Joe is still facing Kenneth.

			  JOE
	I've looked into the volcano,
	Mr. Graynamore.  You know what
	I mean?  After that, the hole
	in the front of a gun doesn't
	scare me at all.

			  KENNETH
	Stay back.


			  JOE
	I'm gonna take the gun away
	from you, Kenneth.

			  KENNETH
	Do you think I won't shoot?

			  JOE
	I don't know.  That's your
	part.  I can't make you shoot
	me and I can't stop you.  I
	can only do my part.  I'm
	going to take the gun away
	from you.

Joe, after slowly approaching, swiftly takes the gun away
from Kenneth.

			  KENNETH
	Just as well.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	If I'd had the gun, you'd be
	dead now.

			  JOE
	We'll never know.  Patricia,
	tell Dad the happy news.


			  PATRICIA
	We got married.  The Chief
	married us.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89		    109A.

205    CONTINUED:  (3)								  205

			  JOE
	And I was wondering where you
	thought we should go on, you
	know, a honeymoon?

			  GRAYNAMORE
	I have no idea

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 4/14/89			110.

205    CONTINUED:  (4)								  205

			  JOE
	I thought we might like to go
	on a sailing trip.  How's that
	sound?

Graynamore doesn't answer.

			  PATRICIA
	I think that sounds great!

			  JOE
	Does this thing have like a
	rubber raft or something?

			  PATRICIA
	It has a dinghy.

			  JOE
	Let's break it out.  I think
	your father's tired of this
	ostentatious life style.


206    EXT. SIDE THE TWEEDLE DUM - NIGHT				    206

As Graynamore and company are just finished getting into
a dinghy.  Joe and Patricia stand on the deck, Joe still
pointing the gun.  Patricia's crew stands by.

			  KENNETH
	What if there's a storm?

			  JOE
	Then you'll drown.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	You'll pay for this.  I'll see
	to that!

			  JOE
	You know what I think, Mr.
	Graynamore?

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89			111.

206    CONTINUED:									  206

			  GRAYNAMORE
	What?

			  JOE
	I think that you don't scare
	me at all.  Maybe you can do
	some stuff to me - if you make
	it back home. If I come back.
	And maybe you can't.  It
	remains to be seen.  But what
	I think, and I say this to you
	from the bottom of my heart,
	sir.  I don't fear you at all.
	I don't fear any man.  Because
	every day is a gift, and I'm
	just glad as hell it looks
	like I may have a few. And
	beyond that, to be scared or
	glad of anything beyond that,
	why a man's just got to be a
	fool!

Joe laughs a laugh, wild and free, a laugh unweighted by
fear, a laugh of pure joy.  Patricia goes below.  Only
here does the island finally go under completely.


207    EXT. THE TWEEDLE DUM - NIGHT					    207

starts up.  And pulls away from the dinghy.  Joe is still
laughing and waving, one hand on the wheel. Patricia
comes up from below.  He puts his arm around her.


207A   EXT. DINGHY - GRAYNAMORE AND KENNETH - NIGHT		  207A

Graynamore is thoughtful.  He starts to smile.

			  GRAYNAMORE
	I like that boy!  Good for
	her!

			  KENNETH
	Good for her?  What about us?

			  GRAYNAMORE
	I like a tight spot.  Maybe I
	have gotten a little greedy.
		  (produces a paddle and
		  hands it to Kenneth)
	Start paddling while I re-
	assess my values.
		  (as Kenneth doesn't
		  start)
	Start paddling.

			  KENNETH
	You paddle.

							    (CONTINUED)
JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89			 112.

207A   CONTINUED:									 207A

			  GRAYNAMORE
		  (lights a pipe)
	Alright.  Fair enough.  We'll
	both paddle.  'And all I ask
	is a tall ship and a star to
	steer her by!' Com'on, let's
	put our backs into it.
		  (stops rowing)
	You know, I have a good
	feeling about this.  Maybe
	we're going to become friends.


208    OMITTED										208

			  KENNETH
	I doubt that.  You're just too
	overbearing.

Graynamore begins to sing "Someone's in the Kitchen with
Dinah" as they paddle out of view.


208A   EXT. THE TWEEDLE DUM - NIGHT (COUPLE OF MINUTES LATER)  208A

The dinghy has gone.  The boat is passing over the spot
where the island went down.  A lot of bubbles and steam
are still coming up.  A few empty cans of Jump come up.

			  PATRICIA
	So what's the end of Waponi
	Woo.

			  JOE
	Yeah, and the Chief.

			  PATRICIA
	Where are we going?

			  JOE
	Away from the things of man! I
	gotta get away from the things
	of man for a while.

			  PATRICIA
	Look!


209    FROM JOE'S POV - BUBBLING SURFACE				    209

His trunks start rising to the surface, one after the
other.  Until three trunks are bobbing on the surface.

JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 6/2/89		    A112A.

209A   BACK TO SCENE								   209A

			  JOE
	I'll tell you one thing.
	Wherever we're goin'.  We're
	taking this luggage.  Help me
	fish it out.


209B   JOE'S POV - BUBBLING TO THE SURFACE				 209B

The Chief comes up on the last trunk.  He is holding his
Tiki teddy bear.

			  JOE (O.S.)
	Chief!

			  CHIEF
		  (triumphantly gasping)
	Look!  Look, Joe Banks, I
	still have my soul!

			  JOE (O.S.)
	Me, too.  Me, too.

JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO - Rev. 5/16/89		    112A.

209C   BACK TO SCENE								   209C

Joe and Patricia smile at each other and help the Chief
up onto the boat.  We STAY where we are, LOOKING AT the
horizon OVER the railing of the boat.

MUSIC.

The big, dramatic pas de deux music from the NUTCRACKER
starts to play.  A moon, with its volcanic aspect
emphasized, a moon that's simply too big to be real,
starts to rise from the sea.  It rises into and up OUT OF
the FRAME while:

THE CREDITS ROLL.


210    EXT. THE TWEEDLE DUM - NIGHT (FEW MINUTES LATER)	    210

The moon hangs in the sky off to the right of the boat.
We see, FROM a distance, Joe and Patricia just getting
the last trunk on deck. Then Patricia goes below. The
ENGINE STARTS up. The boat turns and heads straight for
the moon.

MUSIC.

DUSTY SPRINGFIELD, singing "You Don't Have To Say You
Love Me" begins to play.

We watch them grow fainter and fainter, a smaller and
smaller speck in the eye of the Man in the Moon.  UP
CLOSE to us, the DOLPHIN sticks his head out of the water
again, makes his NOISE once more, and disappears forever
beneath the gentle waves.  One of the craters on the
craterous moon shakes and erupts, puffing out a bunch of
white smoke which forms the words: "The End."
							  FADE OUT.

THE END
 



All movie scripts and screenplays on «Screenplays for You» site are intended for fair use only.
        




