THIS SCRIPT IS A REPRINT
INCORPORATING ALL AMENDMENTS
TO THIS DATE

18/4/77




	ALEXANDER SALKIND	

PRESENTS

"SUPERMAN II"
								
	******************





					Producers:
					ILYA SALKIND and
					PIERRE SPENGLER

					Director:
					RICHARD DONNER
TOM MANKIEWICZ
Shooting Script		

















FADE IN:
FILM CLIP MONTAGE REPRISE:

A reprise of selected film clips from SUPERMAN with the 
exact content to be determined, but certainly 
establishing:

A.	The trial of the VILLAINS, their condemnation by 
	JOR-EL, and GENERAL ZOD'S vow of ultimate 	
	revenge.

B. 	Briefly, the characters of CLARK/SUPERMAN, LOIS, 
	LUTHOR, EVE, AND OTIS.

C.	The hurling of the nuclear missile into space, 
	and its ultimate explosion near the Phantom 	
	Zone.

AS SEEN IN SUPERMAN: 

EXT. PHANTOM ZONE - SPACE


The intense shock waves caused by the nuclear explosion 
collide with the linear Phantom Zone, cracking it, and 
releasing THE THREE GREAT VILLAINS:

GENERAL ZOD:	A pathological diactator with contempt 		
	for everyone but himself. Evil incarnate, 	
	his only goal is to command a world of 		
	inferiors.

URSA:	A strikeingly beautiful but cruel woman 	
	obsessed by an all-consuming hatred of 		
	the male sex.

NON:	A man only to the extent that he is not 	
	an animal. A force of frightening 		
	destruction whose only sounds are 		
	terrifying gutteral roars.

The VILLAINS rush to the crack in the Phantom Zone and 
their unexpected freedom. NON lets out this horrible roar 
of an animal suddenly uncaged.

				ZOD
			Free!


				URSA
			Free!


Their grotesque faces fill the SCREEN with howls of glee 
as they drift off into space.

END OF REPRISE.



EXT. SKY - DAY - ANGLE ON SUPERMAN

SUPERMAN flies lazily through the air, out for a "spin".  
He looks down.


EXT. HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT - LONDON - DAY

The Houses of Parliament and Big Ben in London. A blue 
flash crosses the SCREEN.


EXT. BRITISH COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

A pack of hounds yelps excitedly, having picked up the 
scent, scurries quickly across the green British 
countryside.  Behind them: a FOX HUNTING PARTY in full red 
gear jumps over stone walls and fallen trees in hot 
pursuit.


EXT. CLEARING - DAY

The hounds round a corner into a clearing, then instantly 
stop, confused, begin baying loudly in 	fear.  The HUNTING 
PARTY follows them,  then 	rein their horses back suddenly. 
They look O.S., their jaws dropping.


ANGLE ON SUPERMAN - THEIR POV

SUPERMAN stands in the clearing, hands on hips. Perched on 
his shoulder, peeking out from under the top of his cape - 
a small fox.



WIDER ANGLE

SUPERMAN looks at the stunned HUNTING PARTY like a stern 
schoolteacher.


				SUPERMAN
        	A group of well-bred, intelligent
		gentlemen like yourselves must have
		better things to do than gallop
		across the countryside, slaughtering
		defenceless animals ....

SUPERMAN takes off with the fox, leaving the thunderstruck 
HUNTING PARTY below.


CLOSE ON HUNTERS

HUNTER #1 watches SUPERMAN fly off, turns to HUNTER #2, 
peevishly irritated.

				HUNTER #1
		Well that's certainly given my
		knickers a vile twist ...


				HUNTER #2
		Great blue git ...


EXT. METROPOLIS STREET - DAILY PLANET - DAY

CAMERA PANS DOWN from the sign over the Daily Planet 
building.  On the street below a large pushcart selling 
fresh fruit has taken up a position in front of a ground 
floor pastry shop. A vacant cab pulls up. The CABBIE walks 
over to the cart to buy an apple.


CLOSER ANGLE

The CABBIE buys his apple from the PUSHCART MAN, starts to 
much on it as behind him: 
a blue blur swoops down, approaches the cab from the side.  
The streetside back door to the cab opens and	closes almost 
faster than the eye can see.  A head pops up in the back 
seat - it is CLARK KENT, in his full, mild-mannered 
outfit.  The CABBIE turns, mystified, his teeth sticking 
in the apple as CLARK steps out into the street, casually 
adjusts his tie, smiles nicely at the CABBIE.

				CLARK
	Keep the change ...

CLARK enters the Daily Planet building.


INT. DAILY PLANET CITY ROOM - DAY

The hum of typewriters and activity is heard
O.S.  CAMERA CLOSE on an edition of the Daily	Planet lying 
on a desk.  The front page shows a picture of the 
collapsing Boulder Dam (seen in 	SUPERMAN) with the banner 
headline:  
"LEX LUTHOR'S SCHEME BOMBS - SUPERMAN SAVES WORLD" - 
CRIMNAL DRAWS LONG SENTENCE, exclusive story by Lois Lane.  
Photographs by James Olsen.


WIDER ANGLE
  
LOIS sits behind her desk, reads the story, nods 
approvingly,  pleased with herself. JIMMY OLSEN stands 
over her shoulder, a camera around his 	neck, all 
admiration. 
 
 
				JIMMY  
		Golly, it's a great story, Miss Lane ...  
 
				LOIS
		A picture usually isn't worth a thousand 	
	       words when I write the article, Jimmy.  
			(nice smile)  
		But in this case - congratulations.
  
 
JIMMY grins, looks off.  CLARK enters in B.G.
  
 
				JIMMY  
		There's Mr Kent!  I'd bet he wishes he'd 	
	          been there when it all happened.  
 

				LOIS 
		           (reading)  
		Poor Clark. For some strange reason he's 		                                  
                            never around when Superman appears ...  
 
JIMMY walks off to join CLARK. LOIS turns over the page of 
the paper. More of Jimmy's pictures and her story are 
inside. LOIS reads for a 	moment, then glances over at 
CLARK and JIMMY. She returns to her paper, suddenly 
blinks, looks back.


ANGLE ON CLARK AND JIMMY - LOIS POV  

CAMERA ZOOMS IN on CLARK. He stands talking to Jimmy, 
hands on hips, smiling. 
 
 
BACK TO LOIS

LOIS, her eyes widening, looks down at the paper again. 

INSERT SHOT - SUPERMAN'S PICTURE  
 
A photograph of SUPERMAN - both the pose and the 
expression are exactly identical to the way CLARK is 
standing and looking.


BACK TO LOIS 
 
LOIS is stunned. She looks over at CLARK again.  
 
CLOSEUP - CLARK AND SUPERMAN INTERCUT - LOIS'	POV  
 
CLARK, talking to JIMMY. Then SUPERMAN actually standing 
there in his place. Then CLARK. Then SUPERMAN, etc, as if 
two different men were carrying on the same conversation. 


BACK TO LOIS  
 
LOIS picks up a pen, goes to work feverishly, as CAMERA 
ZOOMS IN on the picture of SUPERMAN in the newspaper. She 
draws in eyeglasses, changes the hairstyle, colours in a 
suit, etc. It is a 	perfect match. CAMERA ZOOMS BACK to 
Lois, tensely excited. There's no doubt about it - she's 
made the discovery of the century. She 	rises triumphantly. 
 

 			PERRY'S VOICE  
		Lane! Kent! Get in here!  
 

ANGLE ON PERRY WHITE 
 
PERRY WHITE stands impatiently in front of the open door 
to his office. He wheels, heads back inside. 

INT. PERRY'S OFFICE - DAY  

CLARK smiles nicely at LOIS as they enter. LOIS, almost 
bursting with the new-found knowledge, 	still hangs on to 
her newspaper 
 
 
				CLARK  
	How are you, Lois...
  
 				LOIS
Oh, just...  
(Sly wink)  
Super, thanks...
  
 
CLARK looks at her curiously. PERRY stares out his open 
window, turns, checks his watch.  
 
				PERRY 
		You're late this morning, Kent.  
 
				CLARK  
		Sorry, Mr White. I... got stuck in 		    
           	traffic.  
 
				LOIS 
          		(Half to herself)
		 Hmm. That's a new one...
  
 
				CLARK  
	                  Excuse me? 


				LOIS  
		I mean as opposed to: "I had to make a 		 
           	phone call", or "I was locked in the 		 
       	washroom", or ... 
 
 
				CLARK  
         		LOIS, what are you... 
 
 
PERRY  
		Listen. If you two want to bicker, that's 	 
              great, because I got just the assignment 	      
       	for you. You're going to pose as a 		   
       	honeymoon couple, in Niagara Falls to get 	        
             an expose of the newlywed racket. Some of 	
         	the hotels up there are bilking these 		
       	kids for every cent they can get. Real 		
	      human interest stuff. Your Aunt Edna'll 	          
       	cry her eyes out.
  
 
				CLARK  
		            (shocked)
                        Newlyweds? Us?
  
 				LOIS  
			    (quickly)  
		That's a great idea, Mr White.
  
 
				CLARK  
			   (protesting)  
		But I'm right in the middle of my series 	
	      on the City council, and ...  
 
 				LOIS
		Oh, it won't take long, Clark. We can 		  
       	just...
				(coy gesture)  
		fly right up there and then sort of ... 	
       	zoom right back again.  
				(quick smile)  
		You know. Like Superman.
  
 
CLARK has caught her drift now, grows slightly alarmed.

 
				PERRY  
		Hey. If he could give you to ride we 		  
       	could save a couple of bucks...  
 			(checks watch)  
		I gotta go. Six lousy photographs and 		
	      Olsen wants to hit me for a raise...
  
PERRY leaves. LOIS sits in her chair, humming, taps the 
newspaper on her knee. She looks up at 	CLARK, flashes a 
broad grin. He looks back at her apprehensively.
  
 
CLARK  
		Well. You certainly look like the cat who 	
       	swallowed the canary this morning.  
 




LOIS
                          Canary?  
			     (rising)  
		No. Actually I was thinking of something 	
	      much bigger that flies... something more 	  
       	in blue...
   
				CLARK  
		Lois, as usual, I'm totally in the dark 	
	       about...

				LOIS  
		Here, Clark. Let me turn on the lights		      
       	for you.  

LOIS drops the paper down on PERRY'S desk, open to the 
page with her retouched picture of SUPERMAN.  

 
				LOIS  
        		Get the picture?
  
CLARK crosses, looks down at it, frowning. 

				LOIS  
       	You know, I never started to put it 		
	       together before. And that's funny, 		   
       	because a good reporter isn't supposed to 	
	      let anything slip by her.   

				CLARK  
		Lois? This is... very amusing 
			(nervous chuckle)
		Yes, Sirree, very amus ... 
  
LOIS  
		Tall, broad shoulders, dark hair... 		 
         	listen, I've got to give you credit. I 		  
       	mean you fooled me...
			(cool stare)
		And I'm nobody's fool - Superman.
  
 				CLARK
            		Su ... Superman?  
			(total disbelief)  
	       	You think I'm Superman?  
 
				LOIS
		Think? I'd bet my life on it. Literally.  
 
LOIS walks casually over to the window. CLARK	pauses, then 
bursts into hysterical laughter.
  
 				CLARK  
		Lois ... you're priceless... you know 		    
       	that? I mean, that's the single funniest 	                    
             thing ... 
 
 
LOIS swings one leg out the window  

 
				CLARK  
			(suddenly concerned)  
		Lois, what do you think you're doing?  
 
				LOIS  
		I'm not worried, Superman. You won't let 	
       	me die...
  
 
LOIS smiles, swings the other leg out, jumps, disappears 
from view.

  
				CLARK  
               		Lois!

SERIES OF FLASH CUTS 


INT. PLANET CITY ROOM - DAY

A subliminal blue blur jets through the City 	Room as 
papers fly from desks everywhere.
  
 
			REPORTER  
		Will somebody shut the window!


EXT. SIDE OF PLANET BUILDING - DAY 
 
LOIS falls through the air.


INT PLANET STAIRWELL - DAY  
 
A revolving blur shoots down the stairwell.





EXT STREET - PLANET ENTRANCE - DAY
  
CLARK is almost instantly at the street entrance to the 
Daily Planet, looks up.
  
BACK TO LOIS  
 
LOIS hasn't far to go.
  

BACK TO CLARK  
 
CLARK inhales, blows up at her with his super-breath.
  

BACK TO LOIS  

The gust of wind hits LOIS, breaking her fall, wafting her 
slightly upward like a leaf.  
 

BACK TO CLARK
 
CLARK looks over at the pastry shop directly under LOIS  


ANGLE ON PASTRY SHOP - CLARK'S POV
  
TWO DELIVERY MEN emerge from the pastry shop, under a 
closed awning, carrying an enormous wedding cake toward a 
waiting delivery van. 
 

BACK TO CLARK
 
CLARK smiles, turns on his X-ray vision. 


ANGLE ON STREET - CLARK'S POV  
 
The heat vision hits the closed metal awning apparatus. 
Popping it open. The awning unfurls over the DELIVERY MEN 
and wedding cake as LOIS 	hits the awning, bounces, rolls 
off the edge, missing the cake by a hair, falling heavily 
into the fruit pushcart. The PUSHCART MAN screams as fresh 
fruit, especially bananas, goes flying.
  

ANGLE ON SIDEWALK
  
Ripe bananas hit the pavement near the feet of the 
DELIVERY MEN, burst open.  
CLOSE ON LOIS  
 
LOIS, totally smeared and smothered in squishy fruit, 
looks up in shock.


ANGLE ON CLARK - LOIS' POV 
 
CLARK sticks his head out of PERRY'S window, yells down, 
horrified.  

 
			CLARK  
		Lois! Oh, thank God!...
  

BACK TO LOIS  
 
			LOIS  
		Clark! Then you're not...  
 
Suddenly realising the disastrous mistake she's made, LOIS 
faints away into the tomatoes. 
 
 
ANGLE ON DELIVERY MEN  
 
The DELIVERY MEN step forward, still holding the cake.
  
 
			DELIVERY MAN  
		Lady? Are you all right? Lady? .


ANGLE ON SIDEWALK

Their feet move ahead, just missing the ripe 	bananas.

			PERRY'S VOICE (O.S.)
		Seventy-five dollars per week? Do you 		          
       	have any idea what kind of salary I was 	
	       making at your age?


ANGLE ON JIMMY AND PERRY

PERRY talks to JIMMY, irritated, as they approach CAMERA. 
JIMMY looks ahead, sees the bananas, points.


	       	  JIMMY
       	Watch out for the banana, Chief ...
			  PERRY
		And don't call me Chief! Olsen, you 		  
       	really take the cake, you know that?


PERRY steps on the banana, goes skidding and flying into 
the DELIVERY MEN, flipping the enormous cake up into the 
air.


ANGLE ON LOIS

LOIS opens her eyes, starts to get up, is suddenly hit by 
what seems like half a ton of cake.


ANGLE DOWN ON STREET - CLARK'S POV

The scene on the street from PERRY'S office window: PERRY 
and the DELIVERY MEN flat on their back, the pushcart 
inundated by the mountain of cake, the PUSHCART MAN 
screaming hysterically, POLICE arriving, JIMMY trying to 
help a furious PERRY to his feet, and LOIS starting to 
rise up again through the mountain of cake as a traffic 
jam begins to form.


INT. PERRY'S OFFICE - DAY

CLARK looks down from PERRY'S window, the yelling, honking 
and screaming clearly audible from below. CLARK smiles, 
closes the window. 	Another REPORTER appears in the office 
doorway.


				REPORTER
		Hey, Clark. You seen Lois around?

				CLARK
		She ... just stepped out for a minute.


EXT. PRISON YARD - DAY

CAMERA PANS the prison yard of a penetentiary. The CONS 
recreate themselves in classic fashion: 	 
one group plays ball, another is huddled around a card 
game, etc. CAMERA PUSHES IN on TWO MEN 	washing clothes in 
one corner of the yard, segregated from the others.



CLOSE ON LUTHOR AND OTIS

LUTHOR stands in front of a large tub of water, transfers 
wet clothes from a vat, rinses them, hands them to OTIS 
who rings them out, runs them 	through an old-fashioned 
roller-type dryer, 	stacks them neatly in a hamper. LUTHOR, 
clearly depressed, sighs deeply.


				LUTHOR
		So this is how it ends for the greatest 	                          
           	criminal mind of our time. Not with a 		  
       	whimper, mind you. Not with a bang.
         		   (examines hands)
		With washwoman's thumb...


LUTHOR sighs again, continues rinsing. OTIS squeezes a 
garment in the rollers. looks over sympathetically.


				OTIS
		I know, Mr. Luthor. I know...


				LUTHOR
		What could you know? You've only got a 		
	       twenty-year sentence. A sissy sentence. 	               
       	But how do they choose to reward Lex 		 
         	Luthor, the world's one true genius? Do 	 
       	they give me treasure? Do they give me 		
	       glory? What, in fact, do they give me?

              		OTIS
		Life plus twenty-five years.
				(cheerfully)
		It almost worked out, Mr. Luthor. The West 	
       	Coast was almost destroyed. Millions of 	
	       people were alomost killed.

				LUTHOR
		Almost. Almost, Otis. But as it turned 		        
       	out, thanks to Superman, not one drop of 	
	       blood was shed.

LUTHOR grits his teeth, hands OTIS some wet clothes.

				LUTHOR
		All I want now is to get out of here and 	           
         	destroy that miserable, glad-handing 		 
           	showboat.

				OTIS
		How? You've tried everything. Nothing 		 
       	seems to stop him.

				LUTHOR
       	Every man has a vulnerable point. Some 	
       	like you, Otis, have several. I just 		
         	didn't find his in time. But now - finally 	        
       	- thanks to my invention, patience, and 	
	       skill - my black box is nearly ready.

				OTIS
		That black box in your cell?

				LUTHOR
				(frantic)
		             Ssssshh.....!

				OTIS
				(whisper)
		That black box in your cell? What's it 		         
          	for?

LUTHOR looks at OTIS secretively, hands him a wet garment.

				OTIS
		          It's only one sock.....

				LUTHOR
		Pegleg Horvath only needs one sock.....
			(back to rinsing)
		All attempts to track Superman with 		          
       	conventional means have failed, inclusing 	
	       radar, correct? Correct. He flies at 		       
       	super-speed. And yet we know that every so 	
	       often, when he isn't all tied up with 		     
       	"doing good" and taking bows and kissing 	
	       babies... he goes North. North. Where? We 	           
       	don't know. The tracking device always 		
	       loses him.... now why would he go North?

				OTIS
              		To ski?

              		LUTHOR
		It's incredible, Otis. Your brain defies 	         
         	all known scientific laws....

            			OTIS
	       	Thanks, Mr. Luthor....


				LUTHOR
		  In its infinite capacity to 			            
               deteriorate.....
				(rinsing)
		That black box, Otis - that innocent 		           
         	looking piece of devilish genius - goes 	 
         	beyond all means of conventional radar.
				(leans in)
		It tracks Alpha Waves.

				OTIS
 (impressed)
 Alpha Waves!

			      LUTHOR
		I could have said linguini, couldn't I. 	             
           	Well. No matter, Otis. You'll hear of them 	           
            	again. Those Alpha Waves will lead me 		  
           	North - to his secret. And when I have 		 
           	that secret - I'll have Superman.


LUTHOR picks up a wet garment, looks at it with extreme 
distaste.


				LUTHOR
		Slasher Fogelstein is a bedwetter. Pass it 	          
          	on.

OTIS nods, turns to no one.


EXT. SPACE

UPWARD MOVEMENT OF CAMERA (EFFECTS) CONTINUES as Earth and 
sky become space and silence.


EXT. SURFACE OF THE MOON

WIDE SHOT: ASTRONAUTS have landed: there is a capsule that 
looks like the famous LEM, supported on four skinny, 
spider-like legs, with glowing metal ladders leading from 
its portal. In BG., two golf-cart vehicles are riding off 
into the pockmarked cratered surface.






INT. HOUSTON NASA CONTROL CENTER - DAY

The familiar setting: banks of computers, TECHNICIANS and 
CONTROLLERS who monitor the ASTRONAUTS.


CLOSE ON TWO CONTROLLERS

TWO CONTROLLERS stand by the monitoring device. CONTROLLER 
#1 flips the switch on his console mike.

			CONTROLLER #1
Houson to Artemis, Houston to 
Artemis, ome in please.

         		VOICE FROM CONSOLE
       		Howdy, Houston.
 

INT. LEM. CAPSULE - MOON SURFACE

An Astronaut, DAVE, who has been up there for forty-five 
days and looks it (unshaven, haggard, etc.)

CONTROLLER VOICE
			 (over speaker)
        		Dave? How's it going up there?

         			DAVE
		All systems normal, Houston. Robbie is out 	
	       doing the geological survey, and Boris is 	          
           	headed for crater 215 to get some soil 		 
         	samples. Oh, by the way. Boris and I are 	           
       	getting engaged.
			(deadly silence)
		Ah ... just a little detente-type humour 	
           	there, Houston. I ...


DAVE looks out of the porthole, suddenly sits
straight up in his seat with a look of absolute   
astonishment.


EXT. SPACE - MOON SURFACE - DAVE'S POV

Trough the LEM porthole WE SEE URSA, drifting like a 
langorous, undulating Rhine Maiden, floating down to the 
moon surface. A smiling siren. A magical apparition.



BACK TO LEM

DAVE stares open-mouthed, speechless.

			CONTROLLERS VOICE
              		Dave?

DAVE
			(whisper - stunned)
		That's it. Yeah, I'm dreaming.

CONTROLLERS VOICE
		        Come in, Artemis!

		       	DAVE
		Yeah ... well ... uh, Houston ... we seem 	  
          	to have an ... an ... unidentified flying 	       
       	...   
				(stares)
	             	object.


			CONTROLLER VOICE
			(sharp surprise)
 		Unidentified flying object? What the hell 	 
         	do you mean? What does it look like?


				DAVE
		Well, sir ... actually, what it looks 		 
         	like, I would have to say, it definitely 	
       	looks like, like ... a girl.


INT. HOUSTON GROUND CONTROL

Looks of worry and dismay.

			CONTROLLER #2
       		A girl.
			(to CONTROLLER #1)
		Call Dr. Kramer. I told you they'd
              been up there too long.


EXT. ANOTHER SECTION OF MOON

The "golf cart" is parked near a rock outcropping by a 
crater. Astronaut ROBBIE, in his bulky space suit and 
helmet, laboriously lifts some moon rocks, stands, begins 
loping back to his vehicle with them as URSA suddenly 
lands in front of him. ROBBIE recoils, his bug yes clearly 
visible through his mask.

				URSA
              		You.

				ROBBIE
	       	Ah ... ah ... yes. M'am?
				(to himself)
		     I don't believe I said that.

				URSA
		     What sort of creature are you?

              		ROBBIE
         		M'am, I'm just a person ...
				(pointing)
	       	From earth, you know? I'm just a man.

				URSA
		        (widening smile)
              		A man ...

URSA suddenly reaches out, rips the space suit down the 
front, tearing a great gaping hole as easily as if she 
were ripping tissue paper. ROBBIE'S arms flail in the air. 
He quickly explodes (EFFECTS) from the pressure change. 
URSA grins.


EXT. OTHER PART OF THE MOON

Another astronaut, BORIS, his suit bearing the insignia of 
the USSR, is attached by a long hose to his vehicle as he 
kneels a few yards away in a crater, scooping up samples 
of dust and putting them in containers. CAMERA PANS: 
GENERAL ZOD suddenly pops out of the crater, vaulting over 
the lip, lands near the astonished BORIS who turns, 
babbling in Russian.


          			BORIS
			(In Russian)
		Who are you? Where did you ....


ZOD lifts BORIS' life-line in one hand and, using his 
fingers as a pair of scissors, simply snips it in two. 
Arms flailing, his screams echoing, BORIS rises like a 
balloon, his gravity pull destroyed as he floats up and 
away. ZOD watches him dispassionately.
				ZOD
              	What a fragile sort of life form this 	
	           	is....


INT. LEM MODULE


				DAVE
			(into speaker - disturbed)
		I've lost contact with Robbie and Boris, 	           
            	Houston. Don't know what...

His eyes widen in horror as he sees:


EXT. SPACE THROUGH PORTHOLE - DAVE'S POV

The body of BORIS floats past the porthole into space.

BACK TO LEM


				DAVE
             		Oh, my God!

				CONTROLLER VOICE
		         What is it? What is it?

 The LEM suddenly begins to shake violently. DAVE is   
 frozen in terror.


				CONTROLLER VOICE
                            Dave? Dave !

EXT. MOON - ANGLE ON LEM


The LEM stands there like a grasshopper. ZOD 	watches 
approvingly as NON shakes it by the legs like an apple 
tree. NON looks to ZOD for further permission. ZOD nods. 
NON chops one supporting 	leg of the LEM with a vicious 
karate chop, knocking it off. The structure lurches 
violently down to one side.







INT. LEM MODULE

The LEM lurches violently, flinging DAVE over backwards. 
Suddenly, wish a smash, the LEM lurches the other way at a 
forty-five degree tilt.


EXT. MOON SURFACE


NON has broken off another leg.


INT HOUSTON CONTROL


				CONTROLLER #2
        		Dave? Can you hear me?


EXT. MOON SURFACE

NON smashes the two remaining struts. The LEM crashes to 
the surface. Instantly NON levitates and flies above it. 
With a roar he rears back, deals the module a mighty blow. 
It smashes into pieces. The screams of the trapped DAVE 
echo off through space. CAMERA PANS TO ZOD looking 
thoughtful. NON roars in triumph.


INT. HOUSTON CONTROL

                                        Everybody  talking at once: 
                 "Artemis! Come in! Robbie? Boris? 
                  Come in! etc."


EXT. MOON SURFACE


ZOD, URSA and NON sit amidst the debris.They have 
decorated themselves with the spoils: ZOD wears patches 
and NASA badges. URSA sports a 	NASA belt buckle, worn as 
a brooch. NON, rocking as he sits, makes frightening 
noises of pleasure, pleased with the mayhem he's caused.


				URSA
		       	(thoughtful)
		Strange. I tore those metal fibres like 	
		paper. And what he did....
				(points at NON)
		Was amazing!
				(dawns on her)
		Something is happening ...
				ZOD
		Yes. To all of us. The closer we come to 	
		an atmosphere with only one sun - a yellow 	 
          	sun - the more our molecular density gives 	          
         	us unlimited powers!

				URSA
		They come from ... earth.
				(points)
		There ...
				(examines NASA buckle)
		A place called ... Houston ...

				ZOD
		Then we must go there too.
				(rises)
		To rule. Finally - to rule!
				(to URSA)
		And then you shall have what you want.

				URSA
    			  (cold steel)
      		       Men. To destroy.

				ZOD
           		And I will lead.

ZOD takes a stance, posing Hitler-like in triumph.


				ZOD
		First we strike terror! Second, seize 		
		control!

United as one, the three fly up and into black 
space, NON's terrible roar trailing off into the darkness.


EXT. PRISON - NIGHT

It is curfew time. One by one, lights are extenguished 
throughout the prison yard. The 	only illumination left is 
in the lit guard 	towers which top the walls.






INT. CELL BLOCK - NIGHT - TRACKING SHOT


CAMERA TRACKS WITH PRISON GUARD as he walks the length of 
the cell block making sure the lights 	are out and all 
prisoners are safely in their cells. He marks the 
information down on a clipboard.


				GUARD
		382 ... check ... 383 ... check ...


He passes LUTHOR'S cell as CAMERA HOLDS: LUTHOR 	and 
OTIS sit in the far corner, clearly visible in a strange 
light. They are both reading.


CLOSER ON GUARD


The GUARD backs up, looks into LUTHOR'S cell, irritated.


				GUARD
		Lights out, Luthor.


Neither LUTHOR nor OTIS move a muscle.


				GUARD
    		I said Lights out!


Again no physical or verbal response. The angry GUARD 
unlocks the cell door, enters.


INT. CELL - NIGHT


LUTHOR continues to peer down at a book entitled: 
HOLLIGRAPHS MADE EASY. OTIS reads a 	comic. The GUARD 
crosses angrily.


				GUARD
		You guys are about ten seconds away from 	          
          	solitary, you know that?
				(to OTIS)
		Gimme that comic ...
The GUARD reaches out to snatch the comic away from OTIS: 
his hand passes right through it as if the book were made 
of air. The GUARD stops, 	wide-eyed, steps toward LUTHOR 
who suddenly disappears completely. He turns back, steps 
toward OTIS. Now OTIS disappears, but LUTHOR has 
reappeared. The stunned GUARD looks down, sees he is 
standing in front of two beams of light. He swivels to 
find their source as CAMERA PANS: They are being projected 
from the corner by a small, complicated-looking holligraph 
device.


BACK TO GUARD


The open-mouthed GUARD blocks both beams now, revealing a 
large shiny pane of plastic-looking glass against the cell 
wall. The GUARD grabs his 	whistle, yells loudly.


				GUARD
		Break! Break!


EXT. PRISON YARD WALL - NIGHT


All hell has broken loose. Loud klaxons ring 	out, 
searchlights glare down from the towers, etc. LUTHOR and 
OTIS run along the wall, duck as a searchlight beam passes 
by overhead, just 	missing them. OTIS holds a long coiled 
rope, one 	end of which has been tied around his middle. 
LUTHOR grabs the coil, flings it over the top of 	the 
wall. OTIS grins excitedly, full of the thrill of the 
jailbreak. LUTHOR looks at him with tragic curiosity, 
sighs.


				LUTHOR
		Tell me again, Otis. Why am I going first?


				OTIS
		To see if it's safe for me, Mr. Luthor. 	
		Isn't that what you told me?

				LUTHOR
				(sad pause)
		Yes, Otis. That's what I told you.



EXT. STREET OUTSIDE PRISON - NIGHT

CAMERA CLOSE on the street outside the prison where the 
rope has hit the ground. Female hands 	pick it up, tie it 
securely to the bumper of a car. The rope becomes 
instantly taut as CAMERA 	PULLS BACK: It is EVE. She looks 
up nervously as LUTHOR scrambles over the top of the 
prison wall, shinnies down the outside, heading for the 
street.


EXT. PRISON YARD - NIGHT

The klaxons and searchlights continue. OTIS 	stands at the 
bottom of the prison wall, the 	rope still tied around his 
middle. (He was the ballast for LUTHOR). He starts to yank 
himself up as the rope suddenly becomes slack. It slithers 
back down over the top of the wall and 	lands at his feet 
as a searchlight hits him 	square in the face.


				GUARD
		Hey, you! Hold it right there!


OTIS turns with a sickly smile, waves shyly into the light 
as if he were on Candid Camera.


				OTIS
				(to himself)
		I guess it wasn't safe ... Poor Mr. Luthor 	 
          	...


EXT. PRISON - NIGHT

A car is waiting with EVE in the driver's seat. LUTHOR 
jumps in next to her, slams the door as EVE steps on the 
gas. The car charges off.


INT. GETAWAY CAR - NIGHT

An ecstatic LUTHOR gives EVE a kiss on the 	cheek, but 
she is clearly not happy, her old guilts settling in.






				LUTHOR
		Well done, Miss Teschmacher.


				EVE
			(stony-faced - glum)
		Why am I doing this? Why am I here?


				LUTHOR
		Is this a philosophy seminar? No. This is 	
		a getaway.

				EVE
		After all you haven't meant to me, why am 	
		I back with you? I must be a masochist.

				LUTHOR
		I'll tell you what you are.
				(patronising smile)
		You're beautiful. You're beautiful when 	
		you drive.


EXT. ROADS - NIGHT

The car moves rapidly down the back roads.


INT. CAR - NIGHT


				LUTHOR
		How would you like to take a little 		
		vacation? I mean, you've earned it, you 	
		know? You deserve it.

				EVE
			  (brightening)
		There is some good in you, Lex, after all.

				LUTHOR
		You'll have to pack quickly


				EVE
			(getting into it)
		A bikini! I'll need to buy a new bikini, 	
		Lex.
				(suggestively)
		C'mon. After being cooped up in that 		
		prison, haven't you thought about me in a 	
		bikini ... once maybe?

				LUTHOR
 				(flatly)
           		       A parka.

				EVE
		You thought about me in a parka. That's 	
		sick, Lex. Really.

				LUTHOR
				(settling back)
               		North!


He reaches under his coat, pulls out the black box, sets 
it on his lap, pets it.


				LUTHOR
		We're going North, Miss Teschmacher.


EXT. NIAGARA FALLS - DAY


A white, textured surface fills the SCREEN. CAMERA PULLS 
BACK SLOWLY: the surface consists of running water and 
ice. As PULLBACK CONTINUES it is revealed to be the 
magnificent Horseshoe Falls in Niagara Falls. CAMERA PANS 
AWAY to a typical motel of the area. A flashing neon sign 
coyly decorated, proclaims Honeymoon Haven. Several cars 
are parked outside decorated with crepe paper ribbons, tin 
cans, and "just married" signs. CAMERA PANS, PUSHES IN on 
a specific cottage.



INT. NIAGARA HONEYMOON COTTAGE - DAY

A garish honeymoon cottage, all velveteen and formica, 
with heart-shaped cushions and other kinds of cloyingly 
distateful romantic nonsense. A bedroom with a heart-
shaped bed leads off. CLARK stands by the luggage in the 
center of the room, nervous, a sour expression on his 
face. 	LOIS explores the furnishings, spots a bottle of 
champagne on the TV with a little card, some 	flowers on 
the table, etc.


				LOIS
		"Complimentary champagne", a 			
		"Complimentary corsage ..."

				CLARK
       	Oh, sure. Everything's complimentary - 		   
	       until you get the bill. Of all the dumb 	
		assignments ...

				LOIS
		        Relax, Clark ...

				CLARK
        		I am perfectly relaxed ...

				LOIS
	       	Then unclench your fist.
				(he does)
		Listen. We're reporters, right? We're 		
		here to get a story, right? So loosen up 	
		a little. Take my hand when we walk. Put 	
		your arm around me like the other 		
		husbands do. For instance, at the 		
		newlywed's dinner tonight ...


				CLARK
		        We're not going.

				LOIS
		Not going? That dinner could be the high 	
		point of our whole story!

				CLARK
		Lois, you saw that sign in the lobby ...

				LOIS
		"Vibrators available on request?"

				CLARK
				(pause - shy)
		The other one. The one about the ... 		
		kissing contest tonight.


	CLARK turns away, embarassed. LOIS' face sets.


				LOIS
         		So that's it.
				(pause)
		Come over here, Clark.
				(pause)
	             	Kiss me.


CLARK stares back at her, deeply troubled. LOIS advances 
on him with a sexy look.


				LOIS
 		      Come here, Clark ...

				CLARK
 			  (defensively)
		Look, I've kissed people before, Lois ...

				LOIS
			    (sultry)
		I'll just bet you have. I know your type. 	       
       	The closet lover.

				CLARK
			   (backing up)
 		    Closets? I don't recall ...

				LOIS
		Strip away all that shyness, that 		
		klutziness, that feeble indecision, and 	
		underneath beats the heart of a rampaging 	          
             stud.


				CLARK
		          Lois, please ...


CLARK is pinned against the wall. LOIS brings her face up 
close to his.


EXTREME CLOSE-UP - CLARK AND LOIS

LOIS' mouth opens seductively. She looks up at CLARK who 
stares down, paralyzed.


				LOIS
		Lay one on me, Clark. Give it your best 	
		shot ...




CLARK hesitates, then squeezes his eyes shut, gives LOIS a 
kiss. His total ineptitude is only matched by his suddenly 
growing enthusiasm which 	he desperately tries to cover 
up. They break. LOIS looks up at him, dazed.


				LOIS
              		Wow ...

				CLARK
		           Was I ... good?

				LOIS
			     (softly)
		I ... think I'd like to go into the other 	                    
             	room now ... get into bed ...
				(smiles)
	              	You know ...

CLARK
				(trembling)
         		Lois ... you mean ...

 			       LOIS
		That's right, Clark. I think I'm getting 	
		a headache.


EXT. THE FROZEN NORTH - DAY

CAMERA CLOSE ON LUTHOR, the hood of a parka surrounding 
his head.


				LUTHOR
		Mush, Miss Teschmacher! Mush!


CAMERA PULLS BACK: LUTHOR is in the front of a snowmobile, 
EVE beside him, driving. LUTHOR 	holds his little black box 
which he studies 	intently. Everywhere is ice and snow. 
We are near the Fortress of Solitude. As the snowmobile 
reaches the top of a rise, LUTHOR, eyes on the box, lets 
out a joyous yelp.


				LUTHOR
		              Aha!


EVE, startled, stops the vehicle with a sickening jolt.

				LUTHOR
			   (very excited)
           		What have we here?


EXT. SNOW - THEIR POV

CAMERA LOOKS DOWN at a vast outcropping of ice, which is, 
in fact, the Fortress.


				EVE (V.O.)
				(disgusted)
		Ice. Snow. Your idea of a good time.


BACK TO SNOWMOBILE


				LUTHOR
		Fool! It's his home! His home! Whatever 	
		there is to learn about that piebald 		
		buzzard, Miss Teschmacher, we'll find the 	                       
       	answers down there!....


EXT. FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE - DAY

The snowmobile quickly shoots across the remaining 
distance to the Fortress. They 	dismount, EVE looking very 
dubious. CAMERA TRACKS WITH THEM around the impenetrable 
icy structure, LUTHOR leading the way.


				EVE
				(tentatively)
		His home? All the way up here? You must 	
		be wrong, Lex.


				LUTHOR
				(aghast)
                    	Wrong? Lex?
				(icily)
		We do not use these words in the same 		
		sentence.


They continue walking. LUTHOR holds his little box out to 
the structure, takes another reading.


				LUTHOR
		There's the needle - right on target.

				EVE
		Well, there's no number on the door, 		
		that's for sure. Not to mention no 		
		door....

				LUTHOR
		And no welcome mat, no picket fence, no 	
		American flag....
				(rounds a corner, furious)
		We are not in Nebraska, Miss 			
		Teschmacher....


        LUTHOR is now OUT OF FRAME.

				(sudden change)
            		 But we do have a door!
 

ANOTHER ANGLE

LUTHOR is at the door as EVE joins him. With a sweeping 
gesture he indicates a smooth panel of 	opaque glass:


				LUTHOR
		No visible opening device. No doorknob. 	
		No hinges.
			   (bends - studies it)
		            Fascinating.
				(frustrated)
             		Impenetrable


LUTHOR turns angrily. EVE hesitates slighly,then 
tentatively pushes on it. It swings open. LUTHOR glares at 
her as she smiles sheepishly.


				EVE
		It was ... open all the time, Lex. Isn't 	
		that funny?

				LUTHOR
				(cold logic)
		An open door is not funny, Miss 			
		Teschmacher. Funny is a person trying to 	
		smile without her teeth.

INT. FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE - DAY


WIDE ANGLE: LUTHOR and EVE stand just inside the entrance, 
dwarfed by the enormous, cathedral-like magnificence of 
the place. They stand, goggle-eyed.


				LUTHOR
				(from afer)
		Fantastic. The construction goes far 		
		beyond all known architectural theory.


CLOSER ANGLE

They wander across the ground level of the Fortress. EVE 
looks curiously uncomfortable as LUTHOR pokes about, his 
attention drawn by the central energy bank and its rows of 
memory crystals.


				LUTHOR
		This place is a work of genius! It lacks 	
		nothing.

				EVE
	             	Wrong.

				LUTHOR
       		I beg your pardon?


EVE looks back at him plaintively.


				LUTHOR
		Well why didn't you go before we left?

				EVE
       		Two days ago?


LUTHOR examines the energy bank and the mechanism for 
activating the crystals. One crystal is still inside, 
sticks out halfway. LUTHOR pulls it out, looks at it 
curiously. EVE joins him.


				EVE
		I think it's boring in here. Everything's 	
		white. Why doesn't the guy put up a 		
		couple of prints? Bullfight posters, or 	
		something.


LUTHOR looks at the bench, then over at the wall opposite, 
trying to figure out why it is positioned where it is. He 
sits down uncomfortably.


				LUTHOR
		Not even a cushion. No wonder they call 	
		him The Man of Steel.


EVE examines the rows of crystals, takes one out.


				EVE
		Now these are kind of pretty ...


				LUTHOR
		Get me that ...


EVE hands it over, a bit surly. LUTHOR, hoping he's 
figured things out, jams it into the mechanism.


ANOTHER ANGLE

Suddenly: The light changes in the Fortress. The giant 
head of Jor-El materialises on the opposite wall.


				JOR-EL
		The virtuous spirit has 
             no need for thanks 	or approval ...


				LUTHOR
   What the ...


EVE takes a step back, frightened. LUTHOR looks up at the 
image with increasing pleasure.


				JOR-EL
		... Only the certain conviction that what 	
		has been done is right ...


				LUTHOR
		It's his old man! The kid looks like him! 	
		Are you his old man?

				EVE
		Ask him where the bathroom is.


				JOR-EL
		... Develop such conviction in yourself 	
		...


				LUTHOR
                       Are you here?


				JOR-EL
		... the human heart on your planet is 		
		still subject to small jealousies ...


				LUTHOR
				(catching on)
		Aahh, he's not here! He speaks from the 	
		past! Cute, very cute ...


				JOR-EL
		... lies, and monstrous deceptions.


LUTHOR yanks the crystal out.


				LUTHOR
		So much for moral rearmament. Give me 		
		another one ...


EVE hands him another crystal at random. LUTHOR shoves it 
in the mechanism - JOR-EL reappears.


				JOR-EL
		Education crystal 108. Earth Culture. A 	
		typical ode, much loved by the people you 	
		will live among, Kal-El. "trees" by Joyce 	
		Kilmer. "I think that I shall never see a 	
		poem as lovely as a tree; a tree whose 		
		branches wide and strong ..."


LUTHOR, to his credit, quickly yanks the tape out.

				LUTHOR
Good god!


				EVE
	Hey wait! I love "Trees".


				LUTHOR
		So does the average Cocker Spaniel ...


LUTHOR snaps his fingers. EVE hands over another crystal. 
JOR-EL materialises again.


				LUTHOR
		The man never changes his suit.


				JOR-EL
				(grim)
		My son, the time has come to tell you of 	
		the darkest episode in Krypton's history 	
		...


				LUTHOR
       		Now this I want to hear ...


				JOR-EL
		Unfortunately, even on our peaceful 		
		planet, there have appeared - once in a 	
		great while - certain anti-social 		
		elements. Deviants. What you on Earth call 	
	       criminals.


				LUTHOR
				(beaming)
		             Criminals ...


				EVE
		Deviants. He had it right the first time.


				



JOR-EL
		Of course, we are not a primitive planet 	
		like Earth, and these unhappy souls were 	
		always successfully transformed into 		
		productive citizens.


				LUTHOR
		They never met Lex Luthor.


				JOR-EL
				(darkly)
		There were, however, three exceptions. 		
		Only three, who proved - impossible to 		
		rehabilitate.


				LUTHOR
				(leaning in)
		          But wait. There's hope.


As JOR-EL continues, CAMERA PUSHES IN on his image, begins 
to PAN. What JOR-EL is saying troubles him. His image 
overlaps itself, changes colors and complexions. As he 
mentions the VILLAINS and their actions, surrealistic 
impressions of them appear in pulsating images, as well as 
their trial, and stormy reflections of the havoc they 
caused.


				JOR-EL
		Non, the destroyer. Unreasoning violence 	
		in the shape of a being ... Ursa, vicious 	
		and cruel, obsessed by a single-minded 		
		hatred which could never be deterred ... 	
		and the one force who could unite them, 	
		the only one whose warped genius could 		
		harness these forces of evil: General Zod. 	            
       	His attempted insurrection was the most 	
		painful episode our people ever had to 		
		endure. But after a long and terrible 		
		battle, peace and harmony were once again 	
		restored ...


ANGLE ON LUTHOR


				LUTHOR
  	What an anti-climax.
	LUTHOR is visibly disappointed. EVE has disappeared.


				JOR-EL
		We had, of course, no death penalty ...


				LUTHOR
	Sensible enough ...


				JOR-EL
		And so they were placed in the Phantom 		
		Zone to be imprisoned for all eternity.


				LUTHOR
	No possibility of parole?


				JOR-EL
		We have, of course, thought long and hard 	
		about that question ...


				LUTHOR
				(delighted)
		Hey! I asked the right question ...


				JOR-EL
		The one danger we considered was that the 	
		Phantom Zone might, we cannot know, just 	
		might be cracked by a nuclear explosion in 	 
       	space.


LUTHOR sits up, vitally interested.


				JOR-EL
				(grim)
		I cannot say I am glad you asked me that. 	
		Because I do not know what could be done 	
		if they were to escape. On Krypton these 	
		villains were uncontrollable. On Earth, 	
		each of them would have the identical 		
		powers that you do ....


The crystal has run out. JOR-EL'S image fades away. LUTHOR 
is transfixed.


				LUTHOR
		Think of it. Three, count 'em, three Super 	
	       Villains! All three with his powers, all 	
	       three totally dedicated to corruption, 	
		violence, and evil ...
				(musing)
		They'd need a contact on Earth, of course. 	              
         	Someone who felt the same way they did, 	
		someone with that same wonderful contempt 	
		for life and decency ...
				(turns)
		But it's all too good to be true, right?


LUTHOR scans the Fortress. EVE is nowhere to be seen.


				LUTHOR
		Miss Teschmacher? Miss Teschmacher!


There is an unrecognisable sound O.S.


				EVE'S VOICE
				(from somewhere)
              		Found it! I think ...


LUTHOR sighs deeply, slumps on the bench.


	352 - 354 SCENES OMITTED


EXT. RIVER BANK NEAR NIAGARA FALLS - DAY

A YOUNG BOY sleeps in a small rowboat with a single 
paddle, a fishing pole dangling over the side. His dog 
sleeps at the other end of the boat. They float on the 
edge of a stillwater pool near a large river. Too near, in 
fact, as the strong current begins to pull them out into 
the mainstream.


EXT. VANTAGE POINT - NIAGARA FALLS - DAY

A vantage point overlooking the falls. CAMERA	PANS the 
fence which keeps the TOURISTS who look through bonocular 
machines from falling over the edge. The area is filled 
with FAMILIES, PEOPLE taking snapshots, and especially 
NEWLYWED COUPLES, all holding hands. Not far away is a hot 
dog stand doing brisk business.


CLOSE ON WEDDING RINGS - TRACKING SHOT

CAMERA CLOSE on a pair of clasped hands, each	wearing a 
shiny new wedding ring. CAMERA PULLS BACK: CLARK and LOIS 
walk hand-in-hand along the vista like typical 
honeymooners. CLARK has a	wistful look in his eye, seems 
to be enjoying himself. LOIS is moodier, her thoughts 
apparantly elsewhere.


				CLARK
    (rhapsodizing)
		Just look at us, Lois. I mean here we 		
		are, strolling along like any other happy 	
       	couple on their honeymoon ...


				LOIS
(pre-occupied)
Uh-huh ...


				CLARK
			    (shy smile)
		Lois - are you maybe feeling just a 		
		little bit of what I'm feeling?


				LOIS
I am if you're hungry.
	(pause - apologetic)
		I'm sorry, Clark, but if the truth be 		
		known - actually I was thinking of ... 		
        	someone else.


				CLARK
				(darkly)
		Why is it I suddenly hear a cape 		
		flapping.


				LOIS
		Well, I can't help it if I'm a girl with 	
		a one-track mind ...
				(nice smile)
		And right now, it's saying, "Feed me."
				CLARK
				(pause - sigh)
	Two Hot dogs - coming up.


CLARK walks away to the hot dog stand as LOIS turns to 
look out at the Falls.


EXT. NIAGARA RIVER - DAY


The row boat with the BOY has been caught up by the strong 
river current, is carried quickly along toward rougher 
waters in the distance. The dog barks, wakes up the BOY, 
who grabs his paddle, frantically tries to stop his 
momentum.


EXT. HOT DOG STAND - DAY

CLARK stands at the end of a long line of PEOPLE at the 
hot dog stand. He waits patiently, bored.


EXT. RIVER NEAR FALLS - AERIAL VIEW

From the air: The rowboat is tossed about by the violent 
current, the BOY paddling ineffectively in circles.


EXT. FALLS VANTAGE POINT - DAY

LOIS stands looking through a binocular machine, PANS the 
area. Suddenly: Screams from the PEOPLE around her. They 
point off excitedly. LOIS wheels to look.


EXT. HOT DOG STAND

CLARK has heard the commotion, looks off as well.


EXT. TOP OF FALLS - AERIAL VIEW

The boat with the BOY and the dog approaches the top of 
the falls.


BACK TO LOIS

LOIS watches in horror.
ANGLE ON FALLS THROUGH BINOCULAR MACHINE

Seen through the binocular machine: the boat is about to 
tip over the Falls. The BOY leans forward, hunches down, 
tucking his dog under him.
CLOSE ON FALLS

The tiny rowboat cascades down through the swirling Falls. 
Suddenly: SUPERMAN appears, bursts inside through the 
powerful waterfall, plucks the BOY and his dog under him.


EXT. VANTAGE POINT AND LOIS

The CROWD gasps, pointing. LOIS lights up.


				LOIS
Superman!


EXT. BASE OF FALLS

The empty rowboat slams into the base of the Falls, is 
shattered into bits.


EXT. RIVER BANK - DAY

SUPERMAN deposits the BOY and his dog on the 	bank of the 
stillwater pool where he was first seen. The BOY looks up 
with hopeless adoration. The dog barks excitedly.


				BOY
Again! Again!


				SUPERMAN
				(winking)
		Sorry. Only one ride to a customer.


EXT. VANTAGE POINT - BACK TO LOIS

LOIS swivels her binocular machine in vain.SUPERMAN is 
gone. The CROWD still buzzes.



				LOIS
		Where did he go now? And how come he just 	       
       	happens to be here when....isn't that 		
	       funny, Clark? Clark?


She turns, looks off, as CAMERA PANS to the hot dog stand, 
then along the viewing rail, past the 	CROWD. CLARK is 
visibly absent. CAMERA PANS BACK TO LOIS: Her face changes 
moods as she realizes:


				LOIS
		And Clark isn't here.....as usual.


EXT. FROZEN NORTH NEAR FORTRESS - DAY

LUTHOR and EVE speed along in their snowmobile. LUTHOR 
holds the black box on his lap. EVE talks over the roar of 
the machine as LUTHOR tries his 	best to ignore what she's 
saying.


				EVE
		....I mean when a girl reaches a certain 	
		point in her life she starts to think 		
		about these things, you know? So we're 		      
       	not married. "Who cares?" I used to ask 	
		myself. Got that? I used to ask........


LUTHOR'S head suddenly cocks. He hears 	complicated noises 
coming from his black box. He reaches over, turns off the 
ignition key. The snowmobile crunches to a stop. EVE 
misunderstands.


				EVE
		Listen, Lex. I don't want to push you 		
		into anything....


				LUTHOR
		I'll push you into something if you don't 	
           	shut up.........


The noises seem to overlap each other. LUTHOR listens 
incredulously: his eyes begin to glow 	with excitement.


				LUTHOR
		It can't be...but it is.... it's 		
		unbelievable...but its true!


				EVE
		You broke your box.


				LUTHOR
		Kryptonian Alpha Waves! Three sets of 		
		them!


				EVE
		I didn't know Superman had a family....


				LUTHOR
		It's them! The villains! The 			
		incorrigibles! Those three little 		
		sweethearts are on their way! Do you 		
		realize what this means? They can give me 	
         	the world!


				EVE
		What do you want with the world? You 		
		don't even like the world.


				LUTHOR
		The world, Miss Teschmacher, is a lot of 	
		real estate.


				EVE
	       Land, land, always land ....


				LUTHOR
		Which they'll develop for me! As soon as 	
		they get rid of Superman and we take 		
		over, I'll put them to work!
				(seeing it)   
		A super construction crew! No, a 		
		destuction crew! Levelling forests, 		
		moving mountains, creating coastlines!
				EVE
       		Here we go again ....


				LUTHOR
		And who do we have to thank for it? 		
		Superman! For setting them free!
		(settles back, rubs hands together)
		Ah, Lex, you're one hell of a fellow. 		
		Even when you lose, you win.
			(pointing dramatically)
		South, Miss Teschmacher! South! To 		
		victory!


INT. NIAGARA FALLS BUNGALOW - NIGHT

The sound of running water is heard. CAMERA LOOKS PAST the 
dressing table. PAST a stylish evening gown hanging from a 
hook on the bathroom door to the silhouette of LOIS behind 
a cluded glass door, taking a shower. A knock is heard on 
the door, almost drowned out by the sound of the running 
water. Then another knock. The water stops as the door 
opens. CLARK enters, dressed in black tie, a small bouquet 
of flowers in one hand. He stops short, mortified, as the 
briefest glimpse of a naked LOIS is seen coming through 
the bathroom door. She wheels back inside simultaneously 
disconcerted, but far less	 concerned.


				LOIS
Whoops!.....


				CLARK
        		Lois, oh my gosh!


CLARK turns his back. LOIS reappears in the bathroom door, 
a large towel wrapped around her. She glances at CLARK, 
takes a seat at the	dressing table, begins combing her 
hair.


				LOIS
		It's all right now, Clark. I just didn't 	
		hear the knock, that's all.





				CLARK
				(turning)
		Lois, for goodness sake. The door wasn't 	
		even locked. I mean, just anyone can walk 	         
          	in here.


				LOIS
		           There you go.
				(combing)
		Clark, running yourself down again.


				CLARK
             		Very funny.


CLARK crosses, nervous, deposits the flowers on the 
dressing table next to her.


				CLARK
		Anyway. Here. A little something for the 	
		newlyweds dinner tonight.


				LOIS
			(glancing at them)
		Pansies....Clark. How...different.


				CLARK
		Would you believe they grow wild around 	
		here? You should see what they're 		
		charging for roses in the gift shop.


CLARK crosses, sits in a chair. LOIS continues with her 
hair. Watching him carefully in the mirror as if with an 
ulterior motive. He smiles back self-consciously.


				CLARK
		You know something, Lois? In spite of the 	
       	unreality of this all ... posing as 		
		newlyweds and everything.
				(fumbling for words)
		In spite of myself, even....I'm sort of 	
		finally starting to kind of feel like 		
		one, in a way.....


				LOIS
	         	A newlywed? You?


				CLARK
		          (defensively)
		Well, I don't see why it should be that 	
		strange for me to ......


				LOIS
			(fixing hair - sincere)
		I'm sorry, Clark. Really I am. I bet 		
		there've been lots of girls who.....
			(thinks about it)
		Well, a few anyway, who.....


				CLARK
				(glum)
	Go ahead and say it.


				LOIS
What?


				CLARK
		That, that somehow I don't seem to... 		
		shape up in your eyes. Well, darn it, I 	
		have nothing to apologize for. I'm a god 	
		reporter. And an even better friend to 		
	       you - if you'ld let me, that is.


LOIS wets her mouth, examines her lipstick, watches him 
carefully.


				LOIS
          		Stand up, Clark.


				CLARK
		           Stand up?


				LOIS
          		Just for fun.


CLARK rises, inadvertantly tugs at his bow tie.
				LOIS
		Look at yourself. Potentially, this 		
		handsome, agressive, dynamite guy capable 	           
       	of anything he wants to do. It's not my 	
		fault, Clark - you run yourself down.


				CLARK
	               (small voice)
How.


				LOIS
		Well, in the first place - you slouch. 		                      
       	Stand up straight for once. Go ahead.


CLARK reluctantly straightens himself.


				LOIS
		Good. Now - find yourself a jacket with 	
		more than one vent. Shoes that don't lace 	                
       	up. A shirt with some colour or a 		
		pattern.


				CLARK
			(he's heard it before)
		All right, all right, Lois, you've made 	
		your point. I know where it's all leading 	             
       	and I'm sorry - but no matter how hard I 	
		try, I'll never be - him.


				LOIS
			(butter wouldn't melt)
	             	Him? Who?


				CLARK
		Who else? Superman. I can't help the fact 	            
        	you seem to think you love him. That's 		               
       	just something I've got to live with. But 	
       	darn it, Lois, it's enough now. Maybe I 	
		just can't stand the competition anymore.


LOIS puts down her make-up, looks at him in the mirror.



				LOIS
		And maybe you've just been the 			
		competition all along.


				CLARK
			(serious stare)
		Lois, I've never been particularly good 	
		at riddles....


				LOIS
		Then let me give you an easy one. Why, 		              
          	with thousands of children falling off 		           
         	something lethal somewhere else in the 		                      
       	world, why would Superman appear here - 	
		at Niagara Falls - today? Why not the 		
		Grand Canyon?


				CLARK
		Why don't you ask the child's family? I'm 	
	       sure they'd....


				LOIS
		Any why is it always when I'm with you? 	
		Right up to the moment, of course, when 	
		Superman appears.
				(CLARK stares)
		You're never there, are you? You've 		
		always just disappeared, somehow. And 		
		somewhat conveniently, it's always seemed 	
             to me.


				CLARK
		I was getting us hot dogs, for Pete's 		
		sake! You were the one who asked me to!


				LOIS
		And when Superman arrived on the scene I 	
		looked over at that hot dog stand. You 		 
         	were gone, Clark. You were nowhere.


				CLARK
		I was....I was....darn it, Lois, just 		
		because I had to go to the.....


LOIS levels a knowing stare at him in the mirror.


				LOIS
		You are Superman. Aren't you.


				CLARK
		Lois, we've been through this 			
		hallucination of your's before. Don't you 	           
       	remember what you almost did to yourself, 	
	       jumping out of a building thirty stories 	
		up? Can't you see the tragic mistake you 	
		almost made?


				LOIS
		       	(thin smile)
		You're right, Clark. I did make a tragic 	
		mistake. What a fool I was....


LOIS opens a drawer in the dressing table, swivels in her 
seat, a loaded revolver now in her hand, levelled at 
CLARK.


				LOIS
		I bet my life instead of yours.


CLARK backs up, eyes widening.


				CLARK
		Lois....don't be insane....Lois, you're 	
		crazy!


She fires. The gunshot echoes across the room. CLARK 
remains standing. He stares at her resigned, but almost 
defiant, his voice becoming that of SUPERMAN. LOIS looks 
at him lovingly, but quietly triumphant.


				LOIS
		I knew it. I guess I must really have 		
		known it for the longest time.....




				SUPERMAN
		You realise, of course, if you'd been 		
		wrong....Clark Kent would have been 		
		killed.


				LOIS
             	How? With a blank?


SUPERMAN closes his eyes in frustration. LOIS	looks back at 
him with a soft smile.


				LOIS
Gotcha.


INT. FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE - NIGHT

CAMERA CLOSE on LOIS' hands as she cracks an egg, and 
expertly starts mixing ingredients into a souffle pan, 
other cooking utensils, spread out near her, ostensibly in 
her own kitchen.


				LOIS' VOICE
		...we'll need another couple of eggs...oh, 	            
       	and while you're out, maybe you can pick 	
		up a nice bottle of wine....


WIDER ANGLE


CAMERA LOOKS PAST LOIS: we realise we are in the Fortress 
which stretches out behind her. The makeshift kitchen has 
been arranged on a high rear level. SUPERMAN stands next 
to her watching, approaches from behind, caresses her neck 
softly. She reacts, turns slowly. He looks down at her 
with a disarming, almost shy smile.


				SUPERMAN
		And what else is missing?


LOIS looks up at him, her eyes filled with love.




				LOIS
		For the very first time in my life - 		
		nothing at all.


SUPERMAN leans in as LOIS trembles involuntarily: they 
kiss for the very first time - a kiss so good that half 
the world would settle for just one like that in their 
whole lives. They finally break, their mouths still 	only 
inches apart.


				LOIS
        			(whisper)
		Where did you learn to do that....


				SUPERMAN
	             	Here....just now....


They kiss passionately as we QUICK CUT TO:


EXT. SKY - NIGHT

SUPERMAN cartwheels and loops in the sky like a lovestruck 
teenager after his first date. He zooms up and down, back 
and forth with a silly grin on his face, suddenly speeds 
off towards the East - the time change gradually turning 
night into day.


EXT. STREET - PISA - ITALY - DAY

CAMERA CLOSE on a souvenir stand in Pisa: the	shelves hold 
rows and rows of cheap plastic souvenir Leaning Towers of 
Pisa, all leaning identically; above are rows of picture 
postcards with the same identical view. An ITALIAN 
SHOPKEEPER admires his stock as he gets ready for the 
day's tourists. CAMERA WIDENS: in the distant B.G. is the 
real Leaning Tower of Pisa, tilted at the same familiar 
angle as all the plastic replicas. The SHOPKEEPER hums 
happily as CAMERA PANS UP to an approaching blue dot in 
the sky.


EXT. SKY ABOVE PISA - DAY

SUPERMAN flies blithely, lovestruck, through the 	sky, a 
bottle of wine in one hand, a bouquet of beautiful flowers 
in the other. He looks down, sees the Leaning Tower, 
playfully swoops to make 	a low pass at it like a buzzing 
fighter plane.


EXT. TOWER OF PISA - DAY

A blue flash circles the Tower twice with tremendous speed 
and pulls up into the sky 	again.


INSERT SHOT - BASE OF TOWER

A huge cracked cornerstone at the higher base of the Tower 
suddenly crumbles from the impact of SUPERMAN'S incredible 
speed.


ANGLE ON TOWER - SUPERMAN'S POV

The Leaning Tower rights itself into an erect	position.


EXT. PISA SOUVENIR STAND - DAY

The SHOPKEEPER dusts his shelves, hums to himself. He 
turns automatically to look at the source of his success - 
his jaw drops. The Leaning Tower isn't leaning anymore; 
it's just another Tower. The SHOPKEEPER clutches his heart 
melodramatically.


				SHOPKEEPER
    Mamma mia!


The SHOPKEEPER looks at the Tower, then back at his wares, 
then back at the Tower - screams after SUPERMAN as the 
blue dot disappears in the sky.


				SHOPKEEPER
		Super-Cretino! Stronzo! ...


Hysterical, he makes an obscene gesture, turns, begins 
smashing his wares off the shelf.






INT. FORTRESS - NIGHT

EXTREME CLOSEUP of SUPERMAN and LOIS, their faces filling 
the screen, looking softly at each other.


				SUPERMAN
				(whisper)
	Ready? ...


				LOIS
				(shyly)
		Now listen to me, darling. I realise 		
		you've never done this before and I nust 	
		have done it hundreds of times, so just 	
		relax and do exactly what I tell you - all 	 
          	right?


				SUPERMAN
I'm xxxxxxxx


				LOIS
		I understand. Okay. Easy now. Go ....


CAMERA WIDENS, PANS: The souffle pan sits a short distance 
away. SUPERMAN turns on his X-Ray Vision:


INSERT SHOT - SOUFFLE PAN

The souffle slowly begins to rise under the heat of 
SUPERMAN's vision.


				LOIS
		Slowly now....not too hot...


The light dims inperceptibly - the souffle rises 
perfectly, higher and higher.


				LOIS
		Stop! Never overcook a souffle....




ANGLE ON THEM

LOIS crosses, examines it, turns, grins, amazed.


				LOIS
Perfect!


				SUPERMAN
		It's easy when you know the chef.


				LOIS
			(kisses him quickly)
		Oh, yeah? Wait till we get into roasts and 	 
       	poultry.


EXT. TEXAS HIGHWAY - DAY

A speeding car roars down an empty Texas highway, past a 
desolate desert vista. It races by at 100 m.p.h., CAMERA 
PANNING, revealing a large billboard with a smiling 
Cowboy, in a	western hat painted on it, reading:
NO MATTER WHAT SWELLS UP - YOU CAN KEEP IT UNDER 	YOUR 
HAT - IF IT'S TEXAS-SIZE.

ANGLE BEHIND THE BILLBOARD

A Texas Ranger patrol car sits hidden behind the 
billboard, ignores the flagrant speeder.


INT. RANGER CAR - DAY

TWO TEXAS RANGERS are busily involved in a sloppy, take-
out lunch: giant cheeseburgers, french fries, milkshakes, 
etc.. Seen through the window past them: A quick flash of 
colour, as ZOD, URSA, and NON land near the car. The 
RANGERS munch away, the silence punctured by 	squawks from 
their radio transmitter. RANGER #1 looks up into the rear-
view mirror, suddenly stops eating, his eyes narrow 
curiously.


				RANGER #1
		Hey. J.J. ... what the hell day is 		
		Halloween ...



				RANGER #2
		I dunno. Sometime in October, ain't it?


				RANGER #1
		That's what I thought.


EXT. RANGER CAR - DAY

RANGER #1 gets out of the car as CAMERA PANS: 
coming toward him are ZOD, URSA and NON. RANGER #1 stares 
in disbelief.


				RANGER #1
Hey, boy!
				(ZOD stops)
		You haul your ass over here!
		And bring that jailbait and that monkey 	
		with you!


The VILLAINS approach the car. RANGER #1 turns to face ZOD 
who stares coldly at him.


				ZOD
		What is your name?


				RANGER #1
		You got things kinda ass-backwards, 		
		dontcha, son? 'Cause that's exactly what I 	
       	aim to find out from you ...


				ZOD
		I am your new ruler. You will kneel in my 	
		presence. My name is General Zod.


				RANGER #1
		Yeah, well General, your name's gonna be 	
		diddleyshit around here unless I see some 	
		I.D.....


				ZOD
	             	Kneel!


NON growls viciously. RANGER #1 steps back,draws his gun.


				RANGER #1
				(to NON)
		You! Get your hands on the car. Now!
				(to RANGER #2)
		J.J. - Call for another unit.
				(to NON)
		          Move your ass!
           

RANGER #2 reaches for the transmitter. NON looks at ZOD, 
who nods. NON swings around, puts his hands on top of the 
car, pushes down softly. He flattens it like a pancake, 
with RANGER #2 still inside. RANGER #1 backs up in terror 
holding his 	gun, as URSA advances on him with a cruel 
smile.


				URSA
		You will not die yet. I will keep you 		
		alive to play with.....


				RANGER #1
		Listen, lady, I never shot a woman in my 	
		life, but so help me....


URSA reaches out for the gun. RANGER #1 fires, pumping 
three bullets into her harmlessly. URSA smiles, closes her 
hand around the gun as RANGER #1 squeezes off two more 
shots into her palm. She crushes the gun like a wad of 
paper. RANGER #1 takes a roundhouse swing at her. URSA 
catches his wrist in mid-air, breaks it with a "snap" 
dropping him to his knees. ZOD smiles thinly, advances, as 
URSA reaches for RANGER #1's belt buckle.


				ZOD
Wait!
				(to RANGER #1)
		Where was he calling? Who is your 		
		superior?


				RANGER #1
				(terrified)
		Cap'n....Cap'n Moss of the Texas 		
		Rangers....


				ZOD
		And who is his superior?


				RANGER #1
		Attorney-General Frieson of the State of 	
		Texas....


				ZOD
				(to himself)
		Another General....and who is his 		
		superior?


				RANGER #1
	The Governor....


				ZOD
	And his superior?


				RANGER #1
		He don't rightly have one, but... well, 	
		the President of the United States, I 		
		guess. In Washington, D.C. and then 		
		there's nobody, General. I swear. I mean 	
		that's about as high as a man can get.


				ZOD
		Then that is the man I want to see.


ZOD smiles, nods to URSA. She advances on the	screaming 
RANGER with sadistic enthusiasm as NON 	roars in triumph.


INT. FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE - NIGHT

CAMERA CLOSE ON WALL PROJECTION: a coloured, suggestive 
relief map of the Planet Krypton - not brilliantly 
distinctive, but rather something which gives impressions 
of the planet's different areas.


				SUPERMAN'S VOICE
		And there....past the Desert of Rozz, 		
		that's the capitol city, KANDOR, where I 	
		was born....


WIDER ANGLE

SUPERMAN and LOIS recline against the side of a 
comfortable upper nook of the Fortress, his arm encircling 
her. A short distance away: the empty 	souffle dish, two 
plates and glasses, and the empty bottle of wine. They lie 
back, watch the projections on an opposite wall. The 
sugested images of JOR-EL and LARA appear through the map 
in pulsating strengths, first growing stronger, then 
disappearing again as LOIS watches, fascinated.


				SUPERMAN
		That's my father, Jor-El ... and my 		
		mother, my ... real mother. Her name was 	
		Lara ... and that's me ... as a baby ...


The images fade away. SUPERMAN smiles a bit seft-
consciously, never having revealed any of this to anyone 
before.


				LOIS
		It's amazing. I never really thought of 	
		you as having a family like ... everyone 	
		else. I mean you just sort of ... were, 	
		you know? Like a fact. A fact without a 	
		mother, or a father ...


SUPERMAN draws LOIS closer, looks at her seriously.


				SUPERMAN
		There were so many times I wanted to tell 	
		you. Sitting next to you as Clark, smiling 	  
       	shyly, listening to you talk about 		
		Superman, and how much you ... loved him 	
		...


He stops, embarrassed, realizing how much he's 
inadvertantly eavesdropped on her during his like as 
CLARK. LOIS smiles nicely.





				LOIS
		That's all right. I suppose it is a little 	 
       	late in the game for me to play hard to 	
		get.


SUPERMAN looks deeply into her eyes.


				SUPERMAN
		It's all real now, Lois - I'm real - and I 	 
       	love you.


SUPERMAN kisses her passionately, lowers to the floor, 
half on top of her. She looks up at him dreamily.


				LOIS
		Mmm. If you only knew what that
             felt like...


				SUPERMAN
	The kiss? ...


				LOIS
	Not ... exactly ...


LOIS smiles, pulls him all the way on top of her. CAMERA 
SLOWLY PANS UP, AWAY from them, to the jagged white 
crystalline ceiling of the Fortress, DISSOLVES THROUGH 
different sections of the structure as the unbelievably 
satisfied VOICE of LOIS echoes softly through them.


				LOIS
		....Superman.....Superman....oh, 		
		Super....man.....


EXT. WASHINGTON MONUMENT - DAY

The cruel face of ZOD fills the screen.	 His voice booms 
out with a deep, penetrating quality.


				ZOD
		I am General Zod! Listen to me, 
             people of the Earth!
CAMERA PULLS BACK: ZOD is perched on top of the Washington 
Monument in Washington, D.C.. He stands erect on the 
pointed apex of the tall, needle-like edifice, his voice 
echoing across the landscape as terrified TOURISTS below 
scream, run away in panic.


				ZOD
		Today I bring a New Order to your planet! 	
		One which shall last until the end of 		
		time! Each of you......


INT./EXT. LINCOLN MEMORIAL - DAY

PEOPLE stand petrified inside and out of the Lincoln 
Memorial and reflecting pool beyond as ZOD continues


				ZOD'S VOICE
		....each man, each woman, each child - all 	               
           	will march proudly together in this New 	
		Order!


EXT. JEFFERSON MEMORIAL - DAY

CAMERA LOOKS THROUGH the Jefferson Memorial, across the 
Potomac River.


				ZOD'S VOICE
		Your lands, your homes, your possessions, 	
		your very lives......


EXT. WASHINGTON MONUMENT - ANGLE LOOKING DOWN

CAMERA LOOKS DOWN PAST ZOD. Police cars with flashing 
lights begin to converge in the distance.


				ZOD
        	All of this and more you 
             will gladly give to	me!


EXT. KREMLIN - RUSSIA - DAY

An aeriel view of the Kremlin in flames, the fire 
spreading throughout Moscow.

				ZOD'S VOICE
		There is no longer a need for separate  
             nations in this world, no need for petty          
             squabbles between one group and another ...


EXT. TOKYO - DAY

TOKYO is in flames. Thousands of JAPANESE flee through the 
streets.


				ZOD'S VOICE
		All of you will work together, strive,  
             produce, and sacrifice together - and all for  
             a common goal!


EXT. PARIS - EIFFEL TOWER - DAY

The Eiffel Tower in Paris is suddenly bathed in a strange 
LIGHT.


				ZOD'S VOICE
		It is useless for you to resist as 
             it is for me to annihilate you ...


EXT. PARIS SKY - ANGLE ON NON

NON focusses his X-RAY vision on the Eiffel Tower.


				ZOD'S VOICE
		You will only bring death and destruction 
             upon yourselves ...


EXT. EIFFEL TOWER

The Eiffel Tower melts under the heat, sags, then 
collapses like a tin toy.


				ZOD'S VOICE
		....while I will lose the potential 
             products of your labour....,




EXT. MT. RUSHMORE - SOUTH DAKOTA - DAY

URSA stands in front of Mount Rushmore, turns on her X-Ray 
vision: The famous faces of the Presidents are 
obliterated, then replaced by those of ZOD, URSA, and NON 
as she burns them in with her eyes


				ZOD'S VOICE
		There is now one law, one order, one ruler 
             who alone will determine your collective 
             destiny! One force before will all of you  
             shall kneel forever!


EXT. WASHINGTON MONUMENT - DAY

ZOD continues to rant on top of the monument.


				ZOD
		In return for this submission 
             you will have my generous protection! 
             In other words - you will be allowed to live.


ANGLE ON BASE OF MONUMENT

A police car has pulled has pulled up at the base of the 
Monument. Flak-jacketed OFFICERS pile out, their CAPTAIN 
holding a bullhorn.


				CAPTAIN
			(to ZOD - through bullhorn)
		You are trespassing on Federal Government 
             property - illegally occupying a national   
             monument.......


BACK TO ZOD

ZOD'S eyes flash with anger as he looks down.


				ZOD
		I will not repeat myself again! There is no 
             nation! Therefore there cannot be a monument  
             to one!.....



WIDER ANGLE

ZOD jumps off, smashes into the monument lower down: It 
crumbles into pieces, the cascading shower of stone 
burying the police cars and OFFICERS below.


CLOSE ON ZOD IN MID-AIR


				ZOD
		From this day forward - 
               there is only Zod!


INT. FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE - DAY

CAMERA LOOKS UP at one of the high, hidden recesses of the 
Fortress. A FIGURE appears, dressed in the familiar colors 
of red, yelloe and blue.


				JOR-EL'S VOICE
		The people of your Planet must be well 
             pleased with you, Kal-El. You have served 
             them faithfully and they are surely grateful 
             for it.
				(changing tone)
		and yet, you have returned here to reason  
             with me once again.


CAMERA ZOOMS IN: it is LOIS, dressed in a SUPERMAN shirt, 
sleeves rolled up, the shirt itself hanging almost down to 
his knees. She tentatively edges around the side of the 
recess, looks off and down.


ANGLE ON SUPERMAN - LOIS' POV

SUPERMAN sits below on the crystal bench near the energy 
bank across the Fortress. The giant head of JOR-EL peers 
down at him, deeply disturbed.


				JOR-EL
		My son, I have tried to anticipate your every 
             question. This is one ... I had hoped you  
             would not ask.
CLOSER ON SUPERMAN

SUPERMAN rises from the bench for the first time to 
converse with his father while standing. His seeming 
bravado is betrayed slightly by his trembling body. 
Clearing his throat nervously, he looks up.


				SUPERMAN
                    	No attachment ...
				(corrects himself)
		The ... feelings I have developed for a 
             certain human being have ... affected me             
             deeply, father.


				JOR-EL
				(almost cold)
		You cannot serve humanity by investing your 
             time and emotion in one human being at the 
             expense of the rest.


				SUPERMAN
		                And ...
       	         (daring to say it)
		If I no longer wish to .... serve humanity?


				JOR-EL
		Is this how you repay their gratitude? By 
             abandoning the weak, the defenseless, the 
             needy - for the sake of your selfish 
             pursuits?
        


				SUPERMAN
				(defiant)
		Selfish! After all I've done for them? Will 
             there ever come a time I've served enough? At 
             least they get a chance for happiness! I only  
             ask as much - no more.


				JOR-EL
		Yours is a higher happiness! The fulfillment 
             of your missions! Your inspiration! You must 
             have felt that happiness within you ...
				(quietly)
		My son, surely you cannot deny that feeling.

JOR-EL stares down impassively, speechless for once.


BACK TO LOIS

LOIS watches with deep emotion.


BACK TO SUPERMAN

SUPERMAN looks up at the silent JOR-EL, quietly pleading.


				SUPERMAN
		Is there ... no way, then, father? Must I 
             finally be denied the one thing in life ... 
             that I truly desire?


				JOR-EL
				(long pause)
		If you will not be Kal-EL - if you will live 
             as one of them ... love their kind as one of 
             them, then it follows that you must become 
             ... one of them.


The rounded section of polarized blue glass which had 
always seemed an integral part of the Fortress wall now 
suddenly detaches itself, slowly moves out towards 
SUPERMAN. We see that it is, in fact, a circular chamber.


				JOR-EL
		This crystal chamber has in it the harnessed 
             rays of the red sun of Krypton. Once exposed 
              to them, all your great powers on Earth will 
              disappear. Forever.


The crystal chamber stops a few feet away. It opens in a 
circular iris. SUPERMAN looks at it apprehensively.


BACK TO LOIS

LOIS watches, paralyzed.





BACK TO SCENE

JOR-EL looks down, speaks slowly, distinctly.


				JOR-EL
		Once it is done, there is no going back. You 
             will feel like an ordinary man. You can be 
             harmed like an ordinary man ...


SUPERMAN steps slowly towards the chamber.


				JOR-EL
				(suddenly)
		Think, Kal-EL! I beg you!


CLOSE ON SUPERMAN

SUPERMAN stares up, the tension visible in his face. He 
pauses, blinks, swallows hard.


				SUPERMAN
				(quietly)
     		       Father, I love her.


SUPERMAN turns, walks into the chamber. JOR-EL's face 
falls as the door rises closed behind him.


CLOSE ON LOIS

LOIS bites her lip, slowly shuts her eyes.


ANGLE ON CHAMBER

Violent light changes begin inside the chamber - lazer 
effects of the Krypton sun burst through it from the 
inside. The outer glass of the chamber becomes an 
increasingly deeper blue.


WIDE SHOT


There is visual chaos in the Fortress. The multi-planed 
images of JOR-EL seem to fight the chamber process - dim 
away, then glow brightly again as if locked in a struggle 
with the inanimate object. The rows of crystals shatter 
like so many light bulbs.


ANGLE ON LOIS


LOIS is terrified. She turns away, is suddenly faced by a 
huge projection of JOR-EL's face: his eyes seem to be 
staring straight at her - they flash with seething hatred. 
LOIS screams, buries her face as:


EXTREME WIDE ANGLE

A final burst of light passes through the crystal chamber. 
The images of JOR-EL simultaneously disappear. The chamber 
glass turns a deadly blue-black. There is absolute 
silence.


ANGLE ON CHAMBER FROM ABOVE

The chamber, seen from the opposite high end of the 
fortress. LOIS' face enters frame, looks at it silently, 
tears running down her face.


INT. WHITE HOUSE CORRIDOR - DAY

Helmeted MARINES in full combat gear help WHITE HOUSE 
POLICE and SECRET SERVICE AGENTS secure the corridor 
leading to the Oval Office. An explosive charge is 
attached to the door at the entrance to the corridor, the 
connecting wires trailing off to a plunger detonator 
behind a nest of sandbags with a machine-gun emplacement. 
The MARINES take their positions, all eyes on the door, as 
suddenly: ZOD, NON and URSA burst down through the 
ceiling, shattering three glass domes which comprise part 
of it. The MARINES, POLICE, and SECRET SERVICE open fire 
through the shower of falling glass, send a withering 
barrage ricocheting around the room. ZOD watches 
triumphantly, the bullets bouncing harmlessly off him as 
URSA and NON go to work: URSA flings the advancing MARINES 
through the air, sends them crashing into one another as 
NON smashes the corridor pillars, then turns his attention 
to the machine-gun nest which blazes away at him. He 
demolishes the emplacement, breaks the gun in two, roars. 
URSA hurls two more MARINES through the air: They crash 
against the wall, one falling on the explosive plunger. 
The corridor is rocked by the blast.
EXT. WHITE HOUSE - DAY

The blast rips through the exterior of the White House 
above the Oval Office corridor, shattering windows, etc.


INT. OVAL OFFICE - DAY

CAMERA LOOKS from behind the PRESIDENT'S desk chair in the 
Oval Office at the closed and bolted entrance door. Half a 
dozen telephones ring with different buzzers and bells, 
but are not answered. To one side, a dozen CHIEFS OF 
STAFF, CABINET MEMBERS, SECRET SERVICE AGENTS, et. al. 
stand waiting as the last sounds of gunfire die away in 
the corridor. There is a long moment of silence, 
punctuated only by the sound of the unanswered phones. 
Suddenly: the door to the Oval Office collapses, kicked to 
the floor in one piece. Standing in the open doorway, the 
devastated corridor seen behind them: ZOD, URSA and NON.


WIDER ANGLE


ZOD and URSA enter. NON fills the doorway, standing guard. 
URSA now wears not only the NASA buckle, but the Texas 
Ranger badge as well. ZOD glances at the silent OFFICIALS 
with contempt, then turns his attention to the 
distinguished-looking MAN sitting behind the President's 
desk.


				ZOD
		You are the one who is called President ...


				MAN
I am.


	ZOD looks down at the carpet with the golden Eagle 
emblazoned on it.


				ZOD
		I see you are already practiced in 
worshipping things that fly. Good.
				(ice stare)
		Rise before Zod ...


	The man is mesmerised by ZOD's stare. He rises.


				ZOD
		And now - kneel ... before Zod.


	The MAN glances at the OFFICIALS, gets no reaction. 
Swallowing hard, he steps around the side of the desk, 
slowly kneels. ZOD starts to smile, then stops.


				ZOD
		You are not the President.
				(MAN reacts)
		No one who leads so many 
          could possibly kneel so quickly.


The MAN blinks, terrified. The phones continue to ring. A 
normal-looking MAN (The PRESIDENT) dressed in shirt 
sleeves, half-hidden by the others, now steps forward.


				PRESIDENT
		I'm the man they're protecting, General. 
I'm the President. I'll kneel to you - 
if it will save lives.


				ZOD
		It will. Starting with your own.


ANGLE ON URSA

URSA looks at the OFFICIALS, particularly the MILITARY.


				URSA
		What a backward planet this is - 
where the men wear the ribbons and jewellry ...


She rips a GENERAL's tunic, pulling the nest of medals 
from his chest, selects a particularly gaudy one, starts 
to pin it on.


BACK TO PRESIDENT


The PRESIDENT locks eyes with ZOD.


				PRESIDENT
		What I do now I do for the sake of the 
people of this world. But there is one man 
here on earth who will never kneel to you.




				ZOD
			    (amused)
	And who is this imbecile?
(gestures) 
Where is he?


				PRESIDENT
		General - I wish I knew ...


With a grim face, the PRESIDENT slowly kneels. Behind him, 
through the Oval Office window, we see the remains of the 
destroyed Washington Monument. There is a low whisper from 
within the hushed group of OFFICIALS.


				OFFICIAL
		Oh, God ...


				ZOD
				(thin smile)
Zod.


EXT. CANADA ROAD - NIGHT


A rented car speeds quickly down a northern Canadian 
highway.


INT. CAR - NIGHT

CLARK drives. LOIS sits next to him. There is an 
uncomfortable tension, an uneasiness between them. CLARK 
looks over at her. LOIS catches his eye, flashes a nervous 
smile.


				CLARK
				(pause)
		All right, Lois - what is it?  
I'm supposed to be the shy one, remember?

				LOIS
				(guilt pouring out)
		It's just that I'm ... well, how would you 
feel if you'd robbed the rest of the 
world of ... I mean if it wasn't for me,
 you wouldn't have ...
				CLARK
				(quietly)
		I didn't do it for you. Lois, I did it for 
us.


CLARK smiles, reaches over, takes her hand.


EXT. DINER - DAY


CLARK pulls the car off the highway into the parking area 
of a seedy-looking diner with a neon hot dog flashing on 
and off in front and the sign: DON'S BIG SLED DOGS. 
Several trucks are parked in the lot as well.


INT. DINER - DAY


CLARK and LOIS enter. A T.V. plays noisily in B.G.. The 
counter is almost empty.


				CLARK
				(to LOIS)
		I'm going to wash up. Grab us a couple of 
seats there.


CLARK exits. LOIS crosses, sits on the end stool. She 
picks up a menu, studies it, as a huge, burly TRUCKER 
enters, spots her, intentionally sits next to her, cutting 
LOIS off from the rest of the counter.


				LOIS
		I'm sorry, that seat's taken.


				TRUCKER
	It is now ...
				(to COUNTERMAN)
		Coffee and a doughnut.
				(to LOIS)
		How'd you like for me to buy 
you a little breakfast, honey?


				LOIS
		How'd you like to blow up your pants?
CLARK comes up from behind, has heard.


				CLARK
				(to TRUCKER)
		Excuse me. That's my seat.


The TRUCKER looks over at the Men's Room, then back at 
CLARK.


				TRUCKER
		You've just been sittin' on your seat, four-
eyes.

				CLARK
				(pause - tense)
		I think maybe somebody ought to teach you 
some manners.

				TRUCKER
		Yeah? Well you let me know when he comes in.

				LOIS
		Clark ... it doesn't matter ... 
we can move ...

				CLARK
				(determined - to TRUCKER)
		Do you ... ah ... want to step outside?


The TRUCKER rises. He's big. He pauses a moment.


				TRUCKER
		I don't mind....


The TRUCKER uncoils a tremendous right hand.


EXT. DINER - DAY

CLARK goes flying through a plate glass door, shattering 
it, lands in a heap on the ground. The TRUCKER is already 
on him. CLARK tries to get up, is immediately knocked down 
again. LOIS rushes through the doorway to help, but is 
unceremoniously flung off to the side. Feeling new rage, 
CLARK rises, rushes the TRUCKER, actually gets in a punch 
or two, but is cut to pieces by a series of expert 
combinations. CLARK falls to the ground, exhausted, his 
face cracked and bleeding, feebly tries to get up once 
more.

				TRUCKER
		You don't know when to lie down, do you, 
buddy? ...


The TRUCKER kicks CLARK in the ribs - he collapses. With a 
sneer at LOIS, the TRUCKER heads off for his rig. LOIS 
rises, her eyes filling with tears, tries to help CLARK 
up.


				LOIS
		Oh, Clark ... Clark ... look at you ...


CLARK tries to smile feebly through the blood, deeply 
embarassed, bitter.

				CLARK
		What's ... the line? I ... guess I just 
didn't know my own strength? ...

				LOIS
		It's all right, Clark. You don't have to 
prove ....

A trickle of blood runs over his mouth. He wipes it away 
with a finger, inadvertantly tasting it, stares at the 
stain on his hands.

				CLARK
				(stunned)
		Blood ... my ...blood ...

				LOIS
		Let's get you inside ....


She helps him to his feet. He stands unsteadily, looks at 
her, ashamed.


				CLARK
				(bitter)
		Maybe we ought to hire a bodyguard from now 
on.


				LOIS
				(deeply felt)
		I don't want a bodyguard. 
I want the man I fell in love with.


				CLARK
		I know that, Lois. And I wish he were here 
...

CLARK turns, staggers in the direction of the diner. LOIS 
puts her arm around him, helps him inside.


INT. DINER - DAY

LOIS helps CLARK back to the counter, starts to clean his 
face, dipping paper napkins in a water glass.


				LOIS
		Boy, what a mess ...


Suddenly - the loud television cuts off: After momentary 
static, a somber VOICE is heard.


				T.V. VOICE
		Ladies and gentlemen - the President of the 
United States.


CLARK, LOIS and the COUNTERMAN turn, listen.

ANGLE ON TV SCREEN

The worried PRESIDENT sits behind his desk, reads from a 
prepared statement, the paper trembling in his hands.


				PRESIDENT
		This is the President. On behalf of my 
country, and in the name of the other 
leaders of the world with whom 
I have today consulted, I hereby 
abdicate all authority and control 
over this planet ... to General Zod.




ANGLE ON CLARK AND LOIS

CLARK and LOIS sit watching, frozen in disbelief.


BACK TO TV SCREEN


				PRESIDENT'S VOICE
		Only through strict compliance with his 
directions will the lives of 
innocent millions be ...
				(sudden desperation)
		Superman, if you can hear me ... 
Superman, where ...


There is a "squawk" as the mike is taken from him. ZOD 
comes on screen, sneers at the PRESIDENT.


				ZOD
		Who is this.... Superman?


				PRESIDENT
		You'll find out, General! And when you do ...


				ZOD
				(raging into camera)
		Come to me, Superman! If you dare! I defy 
you! Come! Come, and kneel before Zod!


BACK TO CLARK AND LOIS

The TV goes dead. CLARK is stunned.


				CLARK
		General Zod ... here ...
				(to COUNTERMAN)
		But when ....


				COUNTERMAN
		When? Where the hell have you been, Mac?
				(no reply)
		How about that Superman, huh? He's great at 
stuff like putting out fires 
but when the real trouble comes, he splits.
				(walks away)
		(cannot read final line in script) 


CLARK looks at LOIS desperately.


				CLARK
		I have to go back ... to the Fortress ...

				LOIS
		But what can you do? There's no way now ...

				CLARK
		I have to try, dammit! Something, anything 
....


CLARK shuts his eyes, deeply troubled. LOIS looks up at 
him tenderly, cups his bruised cheek with her hand.


				LOIS
		Don't ... it's not your fault ... you didn't 
know ...


				CLARK
				(looks up)
		He knew. I heard him. I just didn't listen.


INT. WHITE HOUSE OVAL OFFICE - DAY

ZOD stares out the window at the destroyed Washington 
Monument. NON stands in front of a wall mirror, wraps the 
Presidentail flag around himself with a contented growl. 
There is a terrible scream from O.S. which suddenly cuts 
off. USRA enters through a side door, her chest 
considerably more decorated than before.


				URSA
		I'm bored with this puny planet. 
The men here do not even try to resist anymore.


				ZOD
		Then leave. There are dozens of other 
             life systems nearby. Find one that suits you.


There is a knock on the door. They turn.

ANGLE ON LUTHOR

LEX LUTHOR stands by the door, all confidence.


				LUTHOR
		Luthor's the name. Lex Luthor. Maybe you've  
             heard of me.
				(hopefully)
		The greatest ciminal on earth?


URSA
				(to ZOD)
		I told you this was a puny planet.
				(looks at LUTHOR)
		He irritates me. Let me break his bones ....


				ZOD
		If it pleases you ...


				LUTHOR
				(backing up)
             		Wait!
				(smile)
		Wait'll you get to know me better. Wait'll I   
             give you - exactly what you want.
				(paces, plays it big)
		Unlimited freedom: to kill, crush, main,   
             destroy - plus: Lex Luthor's savvy. Lex  
             Luthor's keen mind guiding your careers!

	        		ZOD
		We have all of this without you. You cannot  
             bargain with what you do not have ...

				LUTHOR
		With respect, your Magnificence, I am 
             bargaining with what you do not have: The son  
             of Jor-El.


The VILLAINS are stunned. They can't believe their ears. 
ZOD turns.

				ZOD
		The son ... of Jor-El? Jor-El, our jailer?

				LUTHOR
		No, Jor-El, the baseball player.
				(brightly)
		Of course, Jor-El, your jailer!


				ZOD
			(salivating)
		His son? His son is on this planet?


				LUTHOR
				(in control now)
		Daily. Perhaps you're more familiar with his 
             earthly non de voyage - Superman.

		       	ZOD
				(Dawns on him)
		So this ... is Superman
				(suspicious)
		And how do you know Jor-El?

				LUTHOR
		As I told your Fullness earlier - I'm just 
             about the best there is.
				(NON growls)
		Second best.

				ZOD
				(wild)
		Revenge! We will kill the son of our jailer!

				URSA
                         Revenge!


NON roars loudly, his fists raised.


				LUTHOR
		Now we're cooking with gas!
				(to NON)
		Have a phone, they're delicious...

       			ZOD
                       But wait!
				(to LUTHOR)
		He flies as well, then ...

				LUTHOR
		Constantly, your Grace.

				ZOD
				(musing)
		He has powers as we do ...

				LUTHOR
		Sure. But he's only one. You're three.
				(looks at NON)
		Or four even, if you count him twice.


				ZOD
		We will bring him to his knees!


				URSA
		Praying ...


				ZOD
		Yes. To me!


They start off, leaving LUTHOR standing there.


				LUTHOR
             		But first!
				(quick smile)
		You've got to find him, check?


The VILLAINS stop, turn, look.


				LUTHOR
             		Check.

				ZOD
			(pause - careful)
       		What ... do you want.


LUTHOR walks around the desk, philosophically, sits down 
in the President's chair.

				LUTHOR
		The world's a big place, my General, but 
             thank goodness, my needs are small.
				(takes out a map)
		And, as it turns out, I have a certain               
             weakness for beachfront property ...

				ZOD
       		What do you want!


LUTHOR smiles hopefully, turns a map in his direction.


				LUTHOR
             		Australia?


INT. FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE - NIGHT

The silence has a deathly quality about it as CAMERA pans 
the empty Fortress. The rows of 	smashed crystals lie 
scattered across the energy bank area. A noise is heard. 
As CAMERA PANS, CLARK comes into frame.


CLOSER ON CLARK

He shivers with the cold, his torn clothes soaked by the 
outside weather. His face is badly marked with bruises and 
dried blood from the fight outside the diner. He stares 
hard at the empty walls of the Fortress, feels the 
silence, then feverishly begins to pick his way through 
the crystal debris, desperately searching for one which is 
undamaged, a piece of one which 	will fit in the mechanism 
- anthing which will enable him to contact JOR-EL. There 
is nothing. CLARK stops, rises, stands in the pile of 
broken crystal, arms by his side in utter defeat. Eyes 
glazing over, he speaks softly, almost 	trembling.


				CLARK
		Father - if you can hear me - I have 		
		failed. I have failed you, myself, and 		
		all humanity. I have traded my birthright 	
		for a life of submission in a world now 	
		ruled by your enemies. There is no one 		
		left to help them, father, the people of 	
		the world. Not since I ...


HIGH ANGLE

CLARK stops, wheels, screams pleadingly.


				CLARK
             		Father! ....

The sound echoes off the wall of the Fortress until, 
finally there is silence again.


BACK TO CLARK


CLARK turns, starts to walk away, suddenly stops, stares 
hard at the energy bank.


INSERT SHOT - GREEN CRYSTAL


The green crystal which was sent to Earth in the baby 
SUPERMAN'S rocket module - the crystal 	whose energy 
constructed the Fortress itself - still glows, embedded in 
the center of the energy bank.


BACK TO SCENE

CLARK moves to the energy bank, removes the crystal, looks 
down at it. With a final last hope, he crosses to the 
bench, inserts it into the playing mechanism. It fits. He 
steps back, waits. Suddenly - the light in the Fortress 
flickers. Then - the face of JOR-EL appears, deeply lined 
with care.


				JOR-EL
		Listen carefully, my son, for we shall
		never speak again.
		If you hear me now, then you
		have made use of the only means left
		to you - the crystal source through
		which our communication was begun.
		The circle is now complete.

JOR-EL'S image grows brighter, his eyes more intense.


				JOR-EL
		You have made a dreadful mistake, Kal-El.
		You have abandoned the world
		for the sake of private ambition.
		You did this of your own free will,
		and in spite of all I could say to
		dissuade you.



				CLARK
                          I.....

				JOR-EL
		Now you have returned here to me for one
		last chance to redeem yourself. This too 	
		- finally - I have anticipated, my son.
				(pause)
		Look at me, Kal-El ....


CLARK stares at him. JOR-EL'S eyes dance with	light.


				JOR-EL
		Once before, when you were small,
		I died while giving you a chance 
		for life.   And now, even though
		it will exhaust the final energy
		left within me .....


				CLARK
			      (turns frightened)
		Father, no !    ..........


				JOR-EL
		Look at me, Kal-El!


CLARK turns, stares back, JOR-EL's face grows larger. Hand 
reaches out toward his son, the index finger extended, his 
expression almost mystical.

				JOR-EL
		The Kryptonian prophesy will be at
		last fulfilled.  The son becomes
		the father - the father becomes the son.  	
		Goodbye forever, Kal-El.
		Remember me, my son ....

CLARK starts to speak, but JOR-EL'S eyes suddenly come 
ablaze with energy, riveting him to the spot. Two dazzling 
white arcs of light shoot into CLARK, racking his body 
with involuntary vibrations. CAMERA PIUSHES IN on JOR-EL'S 
face, straining to summon up the suicidal energy, until 
only his blinding eyes are in the frame.




ANGLE ON CLARK

His body distended with the transfer of energy. The force 
of it almost physically unbearable. CLARK'S own eyes 
suddenly seem to burst apart, as for a split second he 
sees:

ANGLE ON JOR-EL - CLARK'S POV

For an instant, JOR-EL actually stands before	his son - a 
serene smile on his face, his arm extended in farewell. 
Just as suddenly - he disappears.


BACK TO CLARK

				CLARK
				(screams)
	Father! ....


CLARK'S hand comes back... (rest of sentence obscured in 
original script)


WIDE ANGLE


Total silence. The only things visible: The throbbing 
green crystal in the mechanism and the 	lifeless body of 
CLARK on the floor, a strange aura pulsating out from 
within his body.


INT. PERRY WHITE'S OFFICE - NIGHT


PERRY paces up and down in his office, harassed, sleeves 
rolled up, talking to LOIS. JIMMY stands nearby, a flashy 
new camera hanging from his neck. Through PERRY'S inside 
window, a dozen or so REPORTERS can be seen manning phones 
and milling about excitedly in the city room.


				PERRY
				(to LOIS)
		No, no, there's three of 'em! That 		
		cockamamy general, some big truck with 		
		hair on it, and a broad who looks like 		
		the Queen of the Runway. All of 'em can 	
		fly , see through things - everything 		
		Superman can do, they do.
				(pacing)
		Where the hell is he, anyway ...

				JIMMY
		Maybe he hasn't heard about it yet, 		
		Chief. Maybe ...

				PERRY
		Yea, and just maybe - he's lost his guts.
				(depressed afterthought)
		And don't call me Chief ...


LOIS looks down, still feeling at least partly responsible 
for what's happened.


				LOIS
		He'll be here ... if there's any way at 	
		all ... he'll come ...


Suddenly: a low rumble is heard, O.S. The room begins to 
vibrate. then shakes violently, in syncopated rhythm as 
monstrous footsteps approach.


				PERRY
What the ...

				JIMMY
				(nervous)
		Earthquake? ... earthquake!


ANGLE THROUGH PERRY'S INSIDE WINDOW

The wall of the city room collapses in the center as the 
VILLAINS break straight through 	it. The terrified 
REPORTERS scatter, rushing through the exit doors in panic 
as ZOD, URSA, and NON head for PERRY'S office.


ANGLE ON DOOR


NON is the first through, knocking down the door. PERRY 
hurls a huge electric typewriter at him which bounces 
harmlessly off his head. NON slams him back against the 
wall. PERRY crumples in a heap. JIMMY flashes a picture as 
LOIS picks up a sharp letter opener, swings it viciously 
into URSA'S stomach. It folds up like tissue 	paper. URSA 
sends LOIS flying backward into 	PERRY'S rolling desk 
chair. JIMMY flashes another picture - NON seizes the 
camera, irritated, crushes it in his hands.


				JIMMY
        		Hey, that's my new ...


				ZOD
				(from doorway)
	             	Enough!



ZOD stands in the doorway, looks questioningly at the 
group. He glances back at the hole in the City Room wall 
as CAMERA PANS: LUTHOR steps through the hole delicately, 
flicking the occasional debris off his shoulder.


				LOIS (O.S.)
		           Lex Luthor ...


				JIMMY
          		Wouldn't you know ...

				LUTHOR
				(Crossing)
		What a mess, what a mess ... all of that 	
		accumulated knowledge and they never 		
		heard of a doorknob ...


BACK TO SCENE

LUTHOR arrives at the doorway, flashes a quick smile.


				LUTHOR
		You should see the White House. They'll 	
		be cleaning it for months.


ZOD looks JIMMY up and down carefully, turns to LUTHOR.


				ZOD
		This - is the son of Jor-El?


				JIMMY
				(pure loathing)
              		no ...
				(at ZOD)
		But I'll bet you're the son of a ...

				LOIS
				(terrified for him)
             		Jimmy!

				ZOD
				(angry - at LUTHOR)
		You promised me the son of Jor-El!


				LUTHOR
		I know, I know ... but look at it this 		
		way, your Grace - I got you the next best 	
		thing.
				(to Lois)
		You just hold on to this little lady here 	
		and wait. He'll be along. She does all 		
		his P.R. work, you know? He gives her 		
		every exclusive. They're sort of ...
				(leer)
		best friends ....


URSA looks at LOIS with a patronising smile.


				URSA
		What an undemanding male this Superman 		
		must be ...


       			LOIS
		You could use a tuck here and there 		
		yourself, sister.


URSA stares at LOIS.


				ZOD
             		Wait!
				(to URSA)
		She lives - for now. Kill the rest.
				(at LUTHOR)
		           Including him.


	URSA pulls the groggy PERRY to his feet. NON 		
	lumbers forwards at LUTHOR, who backs up 		
	nervously.


			       LUTHOR
		It's Australia, isn't it ... it's too 		
		much, right? Listen, who needs it ... I 	
		can turn over a new leaf ... a hundred 		
		leaves! Trees! Forests!

Suddenly: a clear, stentorian VOICE is heard, O.S.


				SUPERMAN'S VOICE
		Haven't you ever heard of Freedom of the 	
		Press, General?


CAMERA WHIP PANS - SUPERMAN stands on the tip of flagpole 
right outside PERRY'S window. He stares in, arms folded, 
the American flag billowing underneath.


BACK TO SCENE


The VILLAINS are thunderstruck, rooted to the	spot. LOIS 
rises unbelievingly.


				LOIS
             		Superman ...

	        		LUTHOR
             		Thank God ...
				(to Villains)
		         I mean ... get him !


SUPERMAN disappears, flying up and out of frame.


				ZOD
				(insane)
		Come to me, Son of Jor-El! Kneel before 	
		Zod!


The VILLAINS move as one, smashing through both the wall 
and windows after him, completely demolishing the street 
side of the room.
EXT. SKY - NIGHT


The VILLAINS and SUPERMAN manoeuver in the night sky like 
wary fighter planes looking for an opening.


				ZOD
				(yelling)
		Now, son of Jor-El! Submit, and swear 		
		loyalty to Zod!


				SUPERMAN
				(yelling back)
		Not tonight, you pitiful little crackpot. 	
		Never!


The furious ZOD gestures NON forward with a sweep of his 
arm.


ANGLE ON NON AND SUPERMAN


NON zooms through the air at SUPERMAN, cocks his fist. 
SUPERMAN ducks, spins NON around, smashes him in the face, 
sending him shooting backwards.


EXT. EMPIRE STATE BUILDING - NIGHT

NON hits the Empire Stste Building like a cannonball, 
knocks off the top section, sending showers of electrical 
sparks spiralling up into 	the air. The section falls down 
toward the street as the PEOPLE below scream, start to 
flee in panic.


ANGLE ON SUPERMAN

SUPERMAN pauses in mid-air looks - horrified at what is 
about to happen. He zooms down under the falling section 
of the building, holds it up, giving the PEOPLE a chance 
to scatter. NON comes up from behind, yanks SUPERMAN off : 
the section 	falls to the street smashing into bits as the 
first sounds of police cars and fire engines are heard. 
NON whacks SUPERMAN mightily, sends him streaking 
backwards, down and out of frame.


EXT. 42nd STREET BRIDGE - NIGHT


SUPERMAN whizzes down backward from the impact of the 
blow, smashes through the 42nd Street 	Bridge as cars 
plunge off it into the street. SUPERMAN hits the pavement. 
CAMERA ZOOMS IN: He has cracked it, causing a deep cavity. 
SUPERMAN lies there, stunned, tries to clear his head. 
More sirens are heard.


ANGLE ON NON


NON streaks down for the kill, is suddenly battered by a 
withering barrage of bullets from the POLICE which buzz by 
and bounce off him like a swarm of irritating flies. NON 
turns to look, angry: A SWAT truck wheels around the 
corner, headed in his direction.


WIDER ANGLE

NON roars, uproots a lamppost, swings it like a baseball 
bat, "swats" the S.W.A.T. truck, totally demolishing it. 
He wheels in mid-air, turning his attention to SUPERMAN.


EXT. STREET - ANGLE ON SUPERMAN


SUPERMAN, still dazed, lies in the pit he created in the 
sidewalk, actually utters a barely audible moan. NON 
hovers over him, smiling cruelly, as ZOD'S VOICE is heard 
ringing through the air.


				ZOD'S VOICE
		Yield, son of Jor-El! I command you to 		
		yield!


NON starts down. SUPERMAN suddenly springs to life, 
surprising him, ramming him in the stomach with his head, 
at super-speed.


ANGLE ON NON AND BUILDING


NON shoots up and backwards from the force of the butt, 
crashing through a glass building on the 14th floor, and 
emerging from the other side on the 30th floor as huge 
pieces of plate glass rain down into the street.


ANGLE ON SUPERMAN


SUPERMAN looks down, deeply concerned about the havoc and 
destruction he is helping to cause.


				SUPERMAN
				(still half-dazed)
		Too many innocent people ... have to get 	
		him away ...


NON starts for him again. This time SUPERMAN 	flies away 
from him.


EXT. SKY OVER EAST RIVER - NIGHT


NON pursues the apparantly fleeing SUPERMAN to an area 
over East River. SUPERMAN suddenly pivots mid-air, heads 
straight back at NON at tremendous speed. The original 
irresistible force VS. the original immovable object. They 
crash head-on with a sickening impact, both of them 
knocked half-senseless, trying desperately to keep their 
equilibrium in the air. SUPERMAN is the first to recover. 
He flies behind the stunned NON, rams him in the behind 
with his legs, sends him rocketing head-first, out of 
frame.


ANGLE ON STATUE OF LIBERTY


NON streaks forward like a missile, rams the 	Statue of 
Liberty head-first, knocking off the illuminated torch-arm 
so that electrical sparks 	explode into the sky, and the 
metal staircase inside is exposed. The shattered arm sails 
down harmlessly into the sea.


INT. PERRY WHITE'S OFFICE - NIGHT


PERRY, JIMMY and LOIS stand near the edge of the floor 
which used to connect to the missing wall, peer out into 
the night sky trying to get a glimpse of what's going on. 
Fire and police sirens wail loudly below. From the 
distance we can hear the sound of "thumps" and "whacks" 
echoing sonorously across the city, signifying that the 
super-fight is still continuing. LUTHOR lies back calmly, 
propped up against the wall. He checks his watch, mumbles.


				LUTHOR
				(to himself)
		Who would have thought this thing would 	
		go the distance ...


EXT. NEW YORK - NIGHT - HIGH ANGLE


Manhattan is a scene of incredible destruction. Numerous 
fires have broken out. The lights of emergency vehicles 
race through the streets as CAMERA PUSHES IN on TIMES 
SQUARE.


EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NIGHT


Havoc in the streets below. POLICE and FIREMEN work 
frantically. PEOPLE run looking up, terrified. CAMERA PANS 
to ZOD in the sky above, yelling defiantly.


				ZOD
		Admit defeat, you obstinate fool! Bow and 	
		proclaim Zod your master!


Suddenly: SUPERMAN appears next to him.


				SUPERMAN
		Come on, General. Isn't it time you 		
		joined your troops?


With a mighty whack, SUPERMAN sends ZOD flying back.


ANGLE ON WINSTON SIGN


ZOD whistels through the air, smahses into a 	huge Winston 
Cigarette sign, demolishes it, large chunks falling down 
amid the screaming 	POPULACE in the streets.

ANGLE ON SUPERMAN

SUPERMAN winces, watching the destruction. He is suddenly 
poleaxed by NON'S fist, shoots out of frame.


ANGLE ON COCA COLA SIGN


SUPERMAN is driven back into the enormous illuminated Coca 
Cola sign. Hundreds of neon lights pop like soap bubbles - 
rainbows of electrical sparks fall into the streets below: 
SUPERMAN bounces off the sign, dazed, falls down to the 
pavement.


EXT. TIMES SQUARE STREET - NIGHT


SUPERMAN hits the sidewalk, stunned. He looks at the 
destruction around him, agonised, stops short as he sees:


ANGLE on URSA - SUPERMAN'S POV


PASSENGERS scramble away as URSA lifts a city bus. The 
DRIVER tumbles out the door as she sets herself to throw 
it at SUPERMAN.


BACK TO SUPERMAN


SUPERMAN tries to rise, calls out to URSA desperately.


				SUPERMAN
		Don't! The people! ...


URSA lets fly with the bus - it smashes into SUPERMAN, 
driving him back into a building wall, 	obliterating him 
from view.







EXT. SKY - ANGLE ON ZOD

NON has joined ZOD. They look down. The bus remains 
imbedded in the building. URSA shrugs from below, ZOD 
gestures NON to investigate.


EXT. STREET - ANGLE ON BUS


NON and URSA begin to remove the implanted bus as the 
PEOPLE watch in terror. They pull it away from the 
building - look : SUPERMAN has disappeared - a narrow hole 
leads off backward 	through the structure.


EXT. ANOTHER STREET CORNER - NIGHT


The PEOPLE are hushed, wait, unbelieving. NON and URSA 
scan the area with their X-Ray vision, 	find nothing. 
CAMERA ZOOMS IN on TWO TEENAGERS standing on the sidewalk, 
their eyes glassing over.


				TEENAGER #1
				(can't believe it)
		They ... beat him ... they beat Superman 	
		...


				TEENAGER #2
		They didn't beat him ... he just ... 		
		quit. He ran away.


ANGLE ON ZOD


URSA and NON fly up to join ZOD, who roars victoriously 
down at the PEOPLE below.


				ZOD
		So this is your Superman! A coward - like 	
		his father! Go back to your homes, you 		
		meaningless insects! Go home and pray - 	
		to Zod!


The VILLAINS fly off, their gales of cruel laughter 
echoing through the city.
INT. PERRY WHITE'S OFFICE - NIGHT


PERRY, LOIS, and JIMMY step back quickly as the VILLAINS 
land in the office. LUTHOR, still propped up against the 
wall, looks over expectantly.


				ZOD
		Our victory is complete! The son of 		
		Jor-El has fled.


				JIMMY
				(stunned)
              		Fled? ...

				PERRY
       		I don't believe it.

				LUTHOR
				(disappointed)
		You said it. Three-to-one should get you 	
		both ears and the tail.

				ZOD
				(angry)
		He ran in fear from us ...


				LOIS
				(defiant)
		He'll be back. As long as he's alive 		
		he'll try again.

				ZOD
		The next time - we will kill him!

NON roars. LUTHOR rises, dusts himself off, turns to ZOD.

				LUTHOR
		Next time, next time ...
				(shakes his head)
		What am I going to do with you people? I 	
		hold up my end. I deliver the Blue Boy - 	
		and what do I hear from my triple threat? 	
		"Bow, yield, kneel" - that kind of stuff 	
		closes out of town.


ZOD stares hard at LUTHOR, icy, but curious.

				LUTHOR
				(chuckle)
		Kill me? Lex Luthor? Extinguish the 		
		greatest criminal flame of our age? 		
		Eradicate the only man on earth ...


				URSA
                    	Kill him!

				LUTHOR
				(quickly)
		... with Superman's address?


LUTHOR grins, in control now. ZOD examines him carefully.


				ZOD
		There is something more you want. The 		
		greed is written on your face.

				LUTHOR
				(pause)
		Perhaps a small ... incentive, your 		
		Ultimate. A tiny bauble to help me jog my 	
		memory ...

				ZOD
             		What more?

				LUTHOR
				(quick smile)
             		Cuba.


EXT. SKY - NIGHT


The VILLAINS streak through the sky, heading north. ZOD 
leads the way. Riding NON's back - LOIS. On top of URSA - 
LUTHOR.


CLOSER ON URSA AND LUTHOR

LUTHOR rides URSA decidedly uncomfortable, the wind 
whipping through his hair. Trying to keep his toupee on 
with one hand, he leans in to her.



				LUTHOR
				(to URSA)
       		My ears are popping ...
 				(no reply)
		Do you think we can stop for some gum?


URSA'S face sets, plainly irritated. A gust of wind 
suddenly rips the toupee from LUTHOR'S head.


				LUTHOR
		Hold it! Hey! Whoa! Down!


URSA flips over intentionally sends LUTHOR whistling down 
through the air with a scream.


EXT. SKY - ANOTHER ANGLE


As LUTHOR falls, grabbing his toupee, URSA swoops under, 
picks him up. They start off again, LUTHOR adjusting his 
toupee, terrified.


				LUTHOR
		No drinks. No movie. This is the last time I 
             take a charter flight.


EXT. FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE - NIGHT


The VILLAINS land with LUTHOR and LOIS, stare up at the 
Fortress. There is no sign of activity. ZOD smiles thinly, 
recognising the architecture, then snaps to coldly, yells.


				ZOD
		Son of Jor-El - prepare to die!


The threat echoes off into the distance. There is no 
reply. ZOD waves NON forward. The hulking form zooms up at 
the Fortress with a roar.





CLOSER ON FORTRESS


NON seems about to enter the Fortress, suddenly hits an 
invisible electronic field. A crackling "zap" of white 
light sends him reeling backward, stunned.


BACK TO VILLAINS


NON hits the ground near the VILLAINS. ZOD looks over at 
LUTHOR, puzzled.


				LUTHOR
		I don't know ... for me the door was always 
              open.


				ZOD
				(pause)
		He is one. We are three. It is the strength 
             of three that will defeat him.


He gestures to URSA and NON, manipulating them into a 
flying wedge pointed at the doorway, NON in front.


				ZOD
		Together ... now!


The VILLAINS leap, fly like bullets, hit the door 
simultaneously. The electric field crackles mightily 
around and through the door, but cannot withstand their 
combined super-strength. It "shorts" itself out.


INT. FORTRESS - NIGHT


The VILLAINS race in, looking wildly for their prey, 
smelling blood. LUTHOR enters behind them with LOIS. The 
interior seems to be empty. The molecule chamber stands 
directly in front of them.


				ZOD
		Show yourself, coward! Son of a coward!


			SUPERMAN'S VOICE
           		I'm here, Zod.


The molecule chamber suddenly irisses open. SUPERMAN 
stands inside, arms on hips, looks out evenly at ZOD.

				SUPERMAN
		Let Miss Lane go and step inside.
              We'll talk.


LOIS sees what he's about to do, starts forward.


         			LOIS
	       	Superman! No! ...


URSA grabs LOIS by the nape of the neck, jerking her 
backward. ZOD has caught LOIS' reaction, looks at the 
chamber suspiciously.


				ZOD
		Come out - or the woman dies.


SUPERMAN looks at LOIS, her neck about to be snapped by 
URSA. He hesitates, then slowly steps forward and out of 
the chamber. ZOD stares at him.


				ZOD
		Your powers are idnetical to mine, 
             but we are three. We could tear you limb from          
             limb.


NON growls. LUTHOR'S eyes dance with excitement.


				LUTHOR
		Do it, Your Grace! Grab his legs and make a 
             wish ...


		



             		ZOD
		But you are victim to another fatal weakness.          
             Your ...
				(dirty word)
		Compassion. The death of others means more to  
             you than your own.

				SUPERMAN
				(at LUTHOR)
		With rare exceptions ...

				ZOD
		Your father once condemned us to eternal 
             living death. Your fate shall be the same. 
             You will live, Kal-El. Forever - as my slave. 
             If not, then others will pay for your 
             stubborn attitude. Innocent people, millions 
             of them if necessary ...
				(at LOIS)
		Beginning with her.


SUPERMAN looks. URSA tightens her grip on LOIS' neck. She 
winces with pain.


				LOIS
		Don't do it, Superman! Don't ...


Her wind is cut off by URSA.


				SUPERMAN
				(to URSA)
                		Stop it!
				(pause - to ZOD)
		All right, Zod. You win. It's over.

				LUTHOR
		Don't believe him! You don't know him, like I 
             do ...


ZOD smiles, full of himself, looks around the Fortress at 
the memory bank, crystal rows, bench, etc. He sniffs the 
air unpleasantly, turns to NON.


				ZOD
		I sense the presence of Jor-El here. Destroy              
             all this ...
				(at LUTHOR)
		And then kill him.


				LUTHOR
		Me? General, it's me, Lex Luthor! Remember? 
             Who got you through the tough times? You 
             filled your inside straight? You came to me 
             with nothing - except the world. I gave you 
             Superman!


ZOD turns his back on him, walks away. NON begins to smash 
the crystal rows with enthusiastic relish.


CLOSER ON LUTHOR AND SUPERMAN


LUTHOR edges in closer to SUPERMAN, desperate, sweating.


				LUTHOR
		You think you know people, right? Promises 
             are made, gifts exchanged ... what does it 
             all mean anymore? Not like the old days when 
             it was just you and me. And I've got to hand             
             it to you, Superman. You always told the            
             truth. A fellow knew where he stood with you. 
             You wanted to destroy me, pure and simple - 
             and I respected you for it.


NON raises SUPERMAN'S bench high over his head in B.G., 
smahses it to the floor. ZOD turns, looks at chamber, 
examining it cautiously from the outside. SUPERMAN looks 
at LUTHOR carefully. 


				SUPERMAN
				(low voice)
		Perhaps there is some good in your after all, 
             Lex Luthor.

				LUTHOR
		Me? I'm loaded with good! I mean I've never 
             even used it.


		


             		SUPERMAN
		I'll have to take the chance. Try to get them 
             all into that molecule chamber. It takes away 
             their powers, reduces them to human beings. 
             Now if you could ...


LUTHOR looks over. ZOD is about to enter the chamber.


				LUTHOR
		Wait! Don't go in! It's a trap!

				SUPERMAN
		Luthor, you poisonous snake ...


ZOD turns, looks over, concerned.


				LUTHOR
		It's a molecule chamber, your Grace! It turns 
             people like you into ...
				(feels funny saying this)
		people like me.


ZOD looks up at the chamber, realising the mistake he 
almost made. He turns.


				ZOD
		You have done well, Lex Luthor. We will award 
             you this Cuba place.
				(to URSA and NON) 
		Seize him!


URSA and NON spring at SUPERMAN, grab him, one on each leg 
and arm. SUPERMAN kicks and struggles vainly.


				SUPERMAN
       		No! Please! Don't! ...


LOIS rushes to try and help, is caught by a grinning ZOD, 
unceremoniously flung backward to the floor. SUPERMAN is 
hurled into the chamber. LUTHOR rushes to the side, 
presses a control. The door irisses shut. SUPERMAN lies on 
the floor, helpless.

				ZOD
		Lex Luthor! Ruler of Australia and the Cuba 
             place! Activate the machine!


LUTHOR grins, pushes the starting mechanism.


WIDE ANGLE


The chamber is activated. The lights in the Fortress begin 
to change - but this time they happen in the entire 
interior of the Fortress, and not in the chamber.


ANGLE ON SUPERMAN IN CHAMBER


SUPERMAN writhes in agony on the chamber floor as the 
outside lights play on the surface of the chamber.


ANGLE ON VILLAINS, LUTHOR AND LOIS


The VILLAINS and LUTHOR watch with glee as the lights 
dance. LOIS hides her face in anguish.


BACK TO SUPERMAN


The de-molecular process ends. The door to the chamber 
irisses open again. Slowly, painfully, SUPERMAN gets to 
his feet, his face crestfallen, his shoulders stooped, 
resigned to his defeat.


WIDER ANGLE


LOIS looks at him in horror. ZOD smiles cruelly, steps 
forward, salivating in triumph.


				ZOD
		And now - finally - kneel!


SUPERMAN steps out of the chamber, shuts his eyes, the 
final humiliation sinking in. The hushed silence is 
deafening. He has no choice. He kneels. ZOD extends his 
hand in contempt.


				ZOD
		Take my hand and swear eternal loyalty to 
             Zod.


SUPERMAN lifts his hand in disgrace.


EXTREME CLOSE ON HANDS


SUPERMAN takes ZOD'S hand, then slowly starts to squeeze 
it. The sound of bones cracking is heard.


BACK TO SCENE


ZOD'S eyes bulge with pain. SUPERMAN suddenly pulls back 
and jerks ZOD up and over his shoulder.


ANGLE ON ZOD


ZOD is hurled helplessly through the air the entire length 
of the Fortress, crashes against the far wall, drops to 
the floor.


BACK TO SCENE

LUTHOR horrified, suddently realises what's happened.


				LUTHOR
		He switched it! He did it to them! The lights 
             were on our here! He was the only one safe in 
             there!


NON rushes at SUPERMAN with a roar, is tossed into the 
wall in a heap like a rag doll. LOIS turns to URSA, the 
new information sinking in.




				LOIS
		You're a real pain in the neck, you know 
             that?


LOIS uncorks a tremendous haymaker, knocks URSA out cold 
on the floor. SUPERMAN advances on LUTHOR.


				SUPERMAN
		I knew you'd double-cross me, Luthor. A lying 
             weasel like you couldn't resist the chance   
             ...


				LUTHOR
				(backing up)
		Are you kidding? I knew it all the time. Did 
             you see how they fell into our trap? 
             Beautiful ...


				SUPERMAN
		Too late, Luthor. Too late ...


				LUTHOR
		Listen. Have I got a proposition for you, 
             Superman. I mean I owe you one, you know? Now 
             don't say yes or no till you hear me out ...


EXT. FORTRESS - DAY


SUPERMAN and LOIS walk away from the Fortress with a 
handcuffed LUTHOR firmly in tow. LUTHOR'S eyes flicker 
with animation as he talks quickly to SUPERMAN, giving his 
pitch, his one last chance.


				LUTHOR
		... and who would be the wiser? We say you 
             got killed in the battle, you lie low for a 
             couple of months at my place, and then I 
             bring you back - as a boxer! We start you    
             slow at first, and then - we pull the string! 
             The Smallville Strongboy! The Metropolis 
             Masher! Don't you love it? ...


SUPERMAN smiles tolerantly as CAMERA PANS: they have 
reached a large snow cat vehicle with the THREE VILLAINS 
tied up inside, guarded by an ARMY PATROL. SUPERMAN hands 
the now desperate LUTHOR over to them.


				LUTHOR
		Plus - I only take ten ...
				(quickly)
		five per cent.


				SUPERMAN
				(to ARMY PATROLMAN)
		He's all yours, boys ...


LUTHOR is loaded aboard.


				LUTHOR
		Three? Two? One?


				SUPERMAN
				(to ARMY PATROLMAN)
		Blast off.


ANGLE ON SUPERMAN


The snow cat lumbers off through the snow. SUPERMAN puts 
his arm around LOIS. They gaze off at the Fortress in the 
distance. SUPERMAN stares hard, deeply affected by the 
sight of the structure which has meant so much to him for 
so long. His eyes suddenly begin to glow with his X-Ray 
super-vision burning white-hot.


ANGLE ON FORTRESS - SUPERMAN'S POV

The melting Fortress seems to hang suspended for a moment, 
dazzling in the brilliant light. Then - in what almost 
seems a burst of suicidal energy - it disappears.The 
barren landscape is desolate once again.






BACK TO SUPERMAN AND LOIS


The only sound is the quiet whistle of the wind. LOIS 
turns to SUPERMAN, tries to form a faint smile, close to 
tears, realizing the end of the relationship is at hand. 
SUPERMAN looks down uncomfortably, sensing it too.


				SUPERMAN
                        Look, Lois, I ...



				LOIS
			   (brave smile)
		Hey. No ... regrets, you know? 
             I mean I did it, didn't I? 
             I got the man I love to love me?

       			SUPERMAN
	    		  (very hard on him)
		              Yes.

				LOIS
			(false flipness)
		So okay, then. So they need you too. 
             I'd be buying my personal little rainbow at 
             the cost of all those people who say "Help. 
             Come. Quick. Now" ... you think I don't 
             understand that? It's the old eternal 
             triangle, right? Except in my case I've got 
             all of humanity in the next bedroom

				SUPERMAN
		We'll see each other. All the time, like 
             before. But it can't be like ...   
 				
 (Ed note: the original script of Superman II is missing 
here for 8 pages - pages 447-455 inclusive - which covers 
the end of scene 518 until the start of scene 545. I 
presume that the missing scenes cover Superman's decision 
to turn the clock back by flying round the world at super-
speed having first remembered Jor-Els words forbidding him 
to meddle with human history ; then Clarks' encounter at 
the Daily Planet with a rude co-worker, which leads himm 
to re-visit the diner in Alaska. I tried many times to 
locate the missing pages - but no luck)



The TRUCKER spins in his seat, uncorks a tremedous right 
hand to the midsection: he screams as his fist cracks into 
what seems like solid granite, breaking the bone. CLARK 
leans down, spins the stool in the opposite direction at 
dizzying speed. The TRUCKER becomes a whirling blur, his 
seat spiralling upward until it reaches counter level. 
CLARK reaches out, taps him exactly at the right moment: 
the TRUCKER flies down the length of the counter through 
napkin holders, salt shakers, and other people's meals, 
crashes against the wall, lands in a heap. The COUNTERMAN 
gapes at CLARK unbelievingly.


				CLARK
			   (nice smile)
       		I've been working out.

EXT. PISA SOUVENIR STAND - ITALY - DUSK


The sun is setting as the SHOPKEEPER rolls up the awning 
on his souvenir stand. The shelves have now been filled 
with spanking new plasic Towers of Pisa and postards to 
match the new version: all the Towers stand upright. The 
once-again smiling, happy, contented SHOPKEEPER looks at 
the blue upright Tower as CAMERA ZOOMS IN past it to a 
blue dot in the sky.


EXT. SKY ABOVE PISA - DUSK


SUPERMAN flies effortlessly through the air, a large pizza 
in one hand. He looks down, eyes widening as he suddenly 
remembers what he did.


				SUPERMAN
 		    Oh, no! I couldn't have ...


CLOSE ON TOWER


SUPERMAN descends to the top of the Tower, pushes it back 
down carefully so that it will lean once more.






EXT. SOUVENIR STAND


The SHOPKEEPER admires his stock, turns to look over at 
the Tower, looks back, does a double-take, then looks up.


ANGLE ON SUPERMAN - SHOPKEEPER'S POV


SUPERMAN smiles warmly, waves down to him.


				SUPERMAN
 		   Sorry! But it's okay now!


BACK TO SOUVENIR STAND


The SHOPKEEPER gapes. The Tower is now the Leaning Tower 
again - all his wares are useless. Hysterical, he smashes 
his shelves to the ground, makes violent obscene gestures 
at the CAPED HERO above, weeping.


				SHOPKEEPER
   		     Cretino! Super, stronzo! ...
		  (and other expletives deleted)


EXT. SKY - DAY - CLOSE ON SUPERMAN


SUPERMAN flies majestically home, the setting sun behind 
him, soaring toward the blue horizon, magnificent in his 
power. Faster than a speeding bullet, more powerful than a 
locomotive, able toleap tall buildings at a single bound. 
Look - up in the sky! Is it a bird? Is it a plane? No! 
It's SUPERMAN!



	FADE OUT



				T H E    E N D
				_ _ _    _ _ _   
				  
				 	
   

	    	 				
 	

26/6/77		SCRIPT NOTES
			       &
			AMENDMENTS
			-------------

1. PLEASE NOTE THAT CLARK KENT DOES NOT change to SUPERMAN 
- the 'blue blur' will be a grey blur or whatever the 
colour of suit he is wearing for previous scene.

2. sequence following LOIS' falling into the fruitcart -  
   OMITTED.

3. Luthor escapes from prison in balloon.

INT. BALLOON - NIGHT

An ecstatic LUTHOR gives EVE a kiss on the cheek, but she 
is clearly not happy, her old guilts settling in.


				LUTHOR
		Well done, Miss Teschmacher.


				EVE
				(stony-faced - glum)
		Why am I doing this? Why am I here?


				LUTHOR
		Is this a philosophy seminar? No. This is 	
		a getaway.


				EVE
		After all you haven't meant to me, why am 	
		I back with you? I must be a masochist.


				LUTHOR
		I'll tell you what you are.
				(patronising smile)
		You're beautiful. You're beautiful when 	
		you fly.


339	EXT. SKY - NIGHT


	The balloon moves upwards through the night sky.


340	INT. BALLOON BASKET - NIGHT


				LUTHOR
		How would you like to take a little 		
		vacation? I mean, you've earned it, you 	
		know? You deserve it.


				EVE
				(brightening)
		There is some good in you, Lex, after all.



  
46



45




