The Star Wars
by
George Lucas



Rough Draft [First of four major screenplay drafts]
Lucasfilm Ltd.
5/74

1.  FADE IN:

SPACE

A sea of stars is broken by the vast blue surface of the planet, Utapau.  Five
small moons slowly drift into view from the far side of the planet.  The main
titles are followed by a roll-up:

Until the recent Great Rebellion, the Jedi Bendu were the most feared warriors
in the universe.  For one hundred thousand years, generations of Jedi
perfected their art as the personal bodyguards of the emperor.  They were the
chief architects of the invincible Imperial Space Force which expanded the
Empire across the galaxy, from the celestial equator to the farthest reaches
of the Great Rift.

Now these legendary warriors are all but extinct.  One by one they have been
hunted down and destroyed as enemies of the New Empire by a ferocious and
sinister rival warrior sect, the Knights of Sith.

A small silver spacecraft emerges from behind one of the Utapau moons.  The
deadly little fightercraft speeds past several of the moons, until it finally
goes into orbit around the fourth moon.

2.  WASTELAND - FOURTH MOON - UTAPAU

A harsh gale blows across the bleak grey surface of the Fourth Moon.  The
leaden sky presses down on a lone figure, Annikin Starkiller, a tall, heavy-
set boy of eighteen.  He slowly makes his way across the canyon floor.  The
heavy winds whip at him and make the going extremely difficult.  His face is
covered by a breath mask and goggles.  He stops for a second to adjust the
shoulder strap on his chrome multiplelaser rifle.  Something in the sky
catches his eye, and he instinctively grabs a pair of electrobinoculars from
his belt.  He stands transfixed for a few moments, studying the heavens, then
turns and rushes back in the direction from which he came.

3.  SUPPLY HUT - FOURTH MOON - UTAPAU

A spacecraft, half buried in the dust, rests next to the remains of an
abandoned supply shack.  Annikin makes his way across the colorless landscape
and rushes into the crumbling building.  The interior of the hut is shabby,
but manages to abate the howling winds.  Seated in front of a thermoheater are
Annikin's father, Kane, and his young brother, Deak.  Kane is a large, burly
man, wearing the distinctive robes of a Jedi.  Deak is ten years old, with
dusty blond hair and a large scratch on his cheek.  Annikin slams the door and
removes his gear.  His ruggedly handsome face is caked with many layers of
dust.

ANNIKIN
Dad!  Dad!...They've found us!

Deak looks up from a small cube he has been studying.  His father whacks him
across the shoulder with a braided wire connector.

KANE
Continue with the problem.  Your concentration is worse than your brother's.
(to Annikin) How many?

ANNIKIN
Only one this time.  A Banta Four.

KANE
Good.  We may not have to repair this old bucket after all.  Prepare yourself.

DEAK
Me too!

KANE
Do you have the answer?

DEAK
I think it's the Corbet dictum:  "What is, is without."

Kane smiles.  This is the correct answer.  Annikin is strapping on a utility
belt with chrome laserpistols and lasersword.  Kane rises and starts for his
equipment.

DEAK (Con't)
Ahhh, Pop...

KANE
Deak, do you feel you're ready?

DEAK
Yes, sir.  I've outmarked Annikin in twelve disciplines.  I'm as good...

KANE
All right, son, get your gear.

Deak jumps up with the enthusiasm available only to a ten-year-old and grabs
his gear.  His father frowns and shakes his head.

4.  WASTELAND BLUFF - FOURTH MOON - UTAPAU

Kane Starkiller and his two sons carefully make their way up a rock bluff
overlooking the parked silver Sith spacecraft.  Kane inspects the craft with
his electrobinoculars.

KANE
No tracks.  Bi-lock hasn't been opened....Interior systems are still on....

ANNIKIN
Are we going to wait for him to come out?

KANE
He's not in there....He's baiting us.  I'm surprised they only sent one this
time.  We must be wearing them down, or they must think this knight is
something special....Stay on guard, and keep hidden.  I'm going to work my way
across the ridge and call his bluff.  Better we meet in open combat than wait
for him to ambush us....Keep your guard!

Kane leaves his two sons and  moves off along the obscured ridge.  Annikin and
Deak watch him intently.  Annikin throws down his multiplelaser rifle in
disgust.

ANNIKIN
He should have let me go with him....He's getting too old to make an open
challenge.

DEAK
He's not too old to realize you'd just get in the way.

Annikin ignores his little brother's remark and sneaks a look over the ridge
at the Sith spacecraft.  Kane moves out of the rocks some distance away and
starts toward the starship.  Deak moves to the ridge next to his brother, his
chrome laserrifle sparkling in the reflected light of Utapau.

DEAK
He's making his move....

ANNIKIN
Watch your guard...and cover that weapon.  It shines like a beacon.

Deak reluctantly move away and watches the other direction.  Kane has almost
reached the Sith spacecraft and still there is no sign of its occupant.

DEAK
What's happening?

ANNIKIN
Nothing.  I don't like it.

Kane carefully moves to the main hatch of the starship.  He kicks a valve and
the hatch drops open with a loud clank and rushing gas.  Annikin becomes more
tense as his father carefully moves inside the spacecraft.  Everything is
still.  Even the continual winds seem to have died down.  Moments pass with no
sign of activity inside the enemy starship.  Annikin watches the craft with
his electrobinoculars.  The waiting becomes unbearable.

ANNIKIN
Something's happened!  He's been in there too long.

DEAK
Let me look!  Stand my guard.

Deak takes the electrobinoculars from his brother and studies the silent
spacecraft.  Annikin impatiently scans the opposite horizon.

DEAK
I think the power just went off.  We'd better wait here until someone comes
out.

ANNIKIN
What if he needs help?

DEAK
The power went back on again....

With the aid of the electrobinoculars, Deak watches the running lights of the
starship flash on and off.  Suddenly, something huge moves in front of his
field of view.  Before either of the two young boys can react, a large,
sinister Sith warrior in black robes and a face mask looms over them.  He
carries a long lasersword which cuts young Deak down before he or his brother
are able to raise their weapons.  The startled Annikin backs away in horror,
then settles down and ignites his lasersword, which creates an eerie red glow.

He stumbles over rocks as he attempts to avoid the charging Sith knight.  The
evil warrior swings his mighty lasersword, but Annikin manages to deflect the
intended deathblow.

Finally, Annikin is able to assume a defensive stance, and the two warriors
stand, sizing up each other.  The black knight is at least seven feet tall,
and dwarfs the young Jedi.  They stand for a few moments, almost frozen, then
in a flurry of blows, laserswords clash with the sound of electric snapping
and popping.  Annikin is barely able to hold his own against the experienced
knight.  Many blows are exchanged before the Sith warrior is able to back
Annikin up against a deep crevasse.  Annikin stumbles and almost falls over
the cliff to his death.

The black knight suddenly senses something behind him and whirls around to
face Annikin's father, Kane Starkiller, a Jedi Bendu master.  The Sith warrior
raises his lasersword, but is cut in two before he can bring it down again.
Kane moves to the fallen black knight, and studies him carefully.  Annikin,
still a little wobbly from the whole experience, attempts to stand.  Kane sees
his dead son Deak, and goes to him.  He lifts him into his arms and begins to
weep.  Annikin stands bewildered, watching his father cradle his dead brother.

5.  INTERIOR SITH STARSHIP - WASTELAND CANYON - UTAPAU

Kane Starkiller slides into one of the four seats of the small Sith starship.
Through the front viewing canopy, he watches Annikin drag his younger
brother's body to a small crevasse.  Annikin places a small locket around his
brother's neck, makes a complicated sign with his hand, and dumps the body
into the shallow depression.  The giant engines of the spacecraft begin to
whine, kicking up large clouds of dust.

Annikin climbs into the seat beside his father and removes his breath mask and
goggles.  There are tears in his eyes.  Father and son look out across the
wasteland towards Deak's grave.  The thunderous clap of an explosion is
followed by a small mushroom cloud rising out of the depression.  Annikin
throws a container down in a fit of rage.

ANNIKIN
How many more of them are there?  I want to finish it, once and for all!  I'm
sick of running...when will it stop?

Annikin's father waits silently until his son's tirade is finished.  Annikin
sits silently for a few moments.

ANNIKIN (con't)
I'm sorry.

KANE
Son, plot a course for Aquilae.

Annikin lights up like a Bantha at feeding time.

ANNIKIN
Aquilae!!  You mean we're going home?

KANE
We both need a rest.

Kane pulls back on the throttle, and the powerful spaceship lifts off the
surface of the Fourth Moon of Utapau.

6.  CLOUD SEA - ALDERAAN

A title card appears over a sea of billowing clouds on the gaseous planet of
Alderaan:

Alderaan:  Capital of the New Galactic Empire.

The towering white oxide clouds pass, revealing the Imperial city of Alderaan.

The magnificent domed and gleaming city is perched, mushroom-like, on a tall
spire, which disappears deep into the misty surface of the planet.  The
peacefulness of this nebulous idyll is broken by the increasing wail of ion
engines.   Four sleek stardestroyers, from the Imperial Third Fleet, burst
from one of the huge cumulus range.  The craft are flying in a tight formation
as they bank steeply, and head toward the Imperial capital of the galaxy.

7.  INTERIOR OF STARDESTROYER - ALDERAAN

Stardestroyers are two-man spacecraft crammed with sophisticated electronic
weaponry.  The pilot and gunnery officers sit side-by-side, surrounded by
lighted readouts and switches.  They wear the gleaming black uniforms of the
Empire.

PILOT
Tok-One to chicks:  Shape it up.  Let's make it good.

CHICK-ONE
Does that glare bother you?

PILOT
Use your face shield, Chick-One.

The pilot is cold and professional as he maneuvers his craft closer to the
others.  The positions of the ships are displayed on a readout, along with a
graphic representation of the city.  The pilot gives the gunner a quick look
before he flips his sunshield over his eyes.

PILOT
Here we go.  Count:  three, two, one, now!

8.  REVIEW STAND - PLAZA OF THE DADERS - ALDERAAN

On a huge, austere platform stands the dark Cos Dashit, Lord of Alderaan,
Consul to the Supreme Tribunal, and ruler of the Galactic Empire.  He is a
thin, grey-looking man, with an evil mustache which hangs limply over his
insipid lip.  Standing at rigid attention on his right are several generals,
dressed in the black and grey uniform of the realm.  Five members of the
Supreme Tribunal sit off to the side.  On the emperor's left stands Crispin
Hoedaack, newly appointed Governor of the Aquilaean Systems, a young,
treacherous man with stone-cut, angular features and piercing grey eyes.

They all gaze skyward, as the four gleaming stardestroyers scream low overhead
in an impressive barrel-roll formation.  As the sound of the spacecraft
resonates throughout the glass canyon of the Plaza, the group of dignitaries
return their attention to the parade of Imperial shock troops, and giant air
tanks (which ride magically two to three feet above the ground).

The Plaza of the Daders is filled with a hundred rows of troops as the last
brigade marches into position.  The sound of a thousand men snapping to
attention is followed by a strange silence.  A light wind blows the great red
banner of the Empire, creating a subtle flapping sound.  The emperor's
amplified voice startles many of the troops as it cuts through the quiet.

EMPEROR
Upon this battle depends the survival of the Galactic Empire.  Upon this
battle depends the life and long continuity of our civilization.  Not since
the great Jedi Rebellion has our destiny been placed in such a balance.  This
is to be the most magnificent campaign of all!  You have never been called
without doing something to be remembered, something notable and striking.  The
conquering of the Aquilaean System, the last of the independent Systems, and
the last refuge of the outlawed, vile sect of the Jedi, will have such
important and lasting consequences, that I can't but consider it as an epoch
in history.

To the rear of the Plaza, watching the spectacle over the shoulder of a
curious bureaucrat, stands Clieg Whitsun, a tall, blond young man about twenty
years old.  He seems interested in what the emperor has to say, but keeps
looking around nervously as if someone were after him.  His arm rests across
his head, as he carefully but coolly adjusts a glowing blue ring on his index
finger.  The emperor nears the end of his speech.
        Crispin Hoedaack has moved up to stand next to the sinister monarch.
The troops shout an Imperial salute in response to a particularly partisan
statement.

EMPEROR (con't)
...I have personally asked the Aquilaeans to accept this Treaty of Alliance.
During the long period of negotiation, they have only decided to be undecided.

We will barter no longer.  Governor Hoedaack has been appointed the First Lord
of the Aquilaean System and Surrounding Territories.  This is the last
frontier and the final stone in the great wall of the Galactic Empire.

The troops cheer, ad the emperor escorts Hoedaack inside.  Whitsun moves
quickly away from the Plaza, passing through several check stations, where he
is forced to show his identification.

9.  NIGHT CLUB - ALDERAAN

Whitsun walks into the glass and chrome splendor of one of the famous
nightclubs of Alderaan.  He moves to the long mirrored bar, and sits next to a
rough-looking man, Bail Antilles, dressed in the distinctive gold and furs of
the Galactic traders.

WHITSUN
Your glass is empty.

Whitsun speaks into a small intercom on the bar front.

WHITSUN (con't)
A dantic and...

He looks in Antilles' glass.

ANTILLES
No thanks, Whitsun.  I've had enough.

WHITSUN
Just a dantic then.  Bail, it's not like you to refuse a drink.  You're going
to give Galactic traders a bad name.

A drink appears magically from a small elevator in the bar.  Whitsun takes it,
and then places a pen-like transmitter he has taken from his pocket next to
the intercom.  It creates a low electronic buzz.

10.  BAR OBSERVATION CENTER - ALDERAAN

A controller sitting in front of a row of monitors taps his headphones, then
flips a switch back and forth a couple of times.  He is obviously annoyed.

CONTROLLER
Number eighteen is out again.  Give me a maintenance check.

The controller yawns and puts his feet up on the control panel.

11.  NIGHTCLUB - ALDERAAN

Whitsun leans in close to Antilles.  He is suddenly very serious.

ANTILLES
Whitsun, we've got problems.  They've just grounded all spacecraft, including
trade frigates.  Even the ships under Imperial registry can't move.  Something
big is up.

WHITSUN
I'm afraid they're not waiting for the Alliance Treaty.  They're already
moving against the System.  I've got to get word back.

ANTILLES
The chrome companies are protesting the embargo, but it's going to take some
time.

WHITSUN
Isn't anything moving?

ANTILLES
Military ships, but...

They are interrupted by an Imperial officer, and several stormtroopers.   The
officer shouts over the P.A. system, as the troops rush to block the exits.
Whitsun and the Galactic trader are tense, but remain cool.

OFFICER
Attention:  all Captains and First Officers of Guild Trade frigates will
accompany me to the Ministry of Transport immediately.

Antilles gives Whitsun a hopeless look as the troops check their papers, and
then take Antilles away.   A small fight breaks out in the back of the
nightclub as one of the trader captains expresses his dislike of the Empire.
Whitsun slams his glass to the bar in a gesture of hate and frustration.

12.  GOVERNOR HOEDAACK'S QUARTERS - ALDERAAN

The large, white-on-white executive quarters resound with the high-pitched
laugh of the evil Governor Hoedaack.  He slaps Darth Vader, a tall, grim-
looking general, on the back, and the general's mouth makes the slightest
gesture at a smile.

HOEDAACK
Success, I told you.  We are no longer under the control of the Great
Families....We've gained a true advantage.

Vantos Coll, a member of the Supreme Tribunal, and a man of the grossest
dimensions, appears to be a little worried.

COLL
A rather dangerous advantage.  You still have a System to conquer.

HOEDAACK
But this System will bring us more scientific wealth than that of any other
House in the Tribunal.  We will easily gain control of the directorship.

COLL
Don't underestimate the armies of Aquilae.  They're lead by a Jedi.

HOEDAACK
I've told you about Commissioner Lars, General.  He worries a lot.

VADER
It's a myth that any Jedi still exist.

COLL
General Skywalker is no myth.  When I first arrived at court, he was the First
Bodyguard to the emperor...He lead the Jedi Rebellion.

VADER
Seig Darklighter lead the Rebellion.

COLL
So the emperor would have you think, but I was there.

VADER
Then why wasn't he hunted down like the others?

COLL
Because he is too dangerous, too clever.  Besides, his presence on Aquilae is
still only a rumor.

HOEDAACK
Then why do you believe it?

COLL
Because I knew him.  He's there, alright.  I can sense it.  Mark my words:
Aquilae will not be easily conquered.

13.  COURTYARD - PALACE OF LITE - AQUILAE

A low, sleek "landspeeder," (an auto-like transport which travels a few feet
above the ground on a magnetic field), glides into the courtyard of the palace
of Aquilae.  The planet is desert wilderness, but the palace is a sparkling
oasis, with low concrete walls and great turrets spilling over with foliage
from rooftop gardens.  The speeder stops before an enormous shaded corridor.
Fountains line the beautiful and highly polished, tiled walkway.  Two young
boys, Biggs (7) and Windom (5) are helped out of the speeder by Amber, a one-
armed bodyguard dressed in the flowing white robes of the Aquilaean military.
The two boys run through the long corridors, yelling and screaming, their
little footsteps echoing throughout the palace.

14.  The palace library is a dim, cool room projecting an aura of time-worn
comfort and security.  In the distance, the children can be heard screaming
through the corridors.  King Kayos, silver-haired but amazingly youthful under
a tanned and leathery face, motions for one of his aides to shut the partially
closed door.  He is in the middle of an emergency meeting of the Aquilaean
High Senate.  The twelve men sit in overstuffed chairs, placed in a large
circle.  A large, sallow-eyed Galactic trader named Aay Zavos fiddles
nervously with a small scrap of leather as he speaks.

ZAVOS
My Lord, the chrome companies are with you in spirit, but you must understand,
they can't openly support you.  Imperial trade restrictions are very
unfavorable, and we, of course, favor your independence.

KAYOS
If there were to be war, would your frigates still supply us?

ZAVOS
Your bluntness is to be commended.  It could be arranged.

Count Sandage, a corrupt noble of the Senate, jumps to his feet in a rage.

SANDAGE
This is nonsense!  We have no choice but to approve the Treaty.  If there is
war, the Empire will destroy our entire System with a snap of the finger.
General Skywalker is a dreamer if he thinks he can mount any meaningful
resistance....And you're dreamers if you believe him.  So much trust in one
aged man.  You must see...

At that moment, all heads turn as someone enters the room.  It is General Luke
Skywalker, Commander of the Aquilaean Starforce.  He is a large man,
apparently in his early sixties, but actually much older.  Everyone senses the
aura of power that radiates from this great warrior.  Here is a leader:  a
Jedi general.  He looks weary, but is still a magnificent-looking warrior.
His face, cracked and weathered by exotic climates, is set off by a close
silver beard, and dark, penetrating eyes.  Sandage is somewhat embarrassed and
quietly sits down.

GENERAL
Is there anyone here so naive he believes the Empire would even bother
negotiating if they were contemplating destruction of this System?  Your
Excellencies, this is more than a simple raid on your resources.  You must
reach a decision.

Mir Nash, a thin, birdlike senator, turns to the general.

NASH
General Skywalker, war is a serious business...a deadly business.

GENERAL
Procrastination is a deadly business, Senator.  War is my business.  Have you
approved my defense measures?

The Grande Mouff Tarkin wears the long, black robes of the Aquilaean religion.

He speaks with a high, cracking voice.

TARKIN
An actual war with the Empire is still only a remote possibility.  As a
military treatise, your proposal has certain merits, but in the harsh light of
reality, an attack against the Empire appears to be a somewhat extreme
defense.

NASH
You must understand, General, we are interested in avoiding a war, not
starting one.

GENERAL
There are times when offense makes the best defense.  If that Alliance Treaty
isn't signed, we will need all of the advantage we can get.

KAYOS
Count Sandage, I want you to head the delegation to Alderaan.  You will leave
tomorrow with our answer regarding the Treaty.  My decision will be
forthcoming.

The senators whisper among themselves.

KAYOS (con't)
All right, then.  May the force of others be with you all.

The senators leave in a flurry of hushed conversation.  The general is lost in
thought, and remains in his chair.  Biggs and Windom (Windy), the king's two
young sons, storm through the existing senators and rush on to Kayos' lap.
The king is obviously very proud of the two young princes.  He throws Biggs
into the air, and then catches him again.

WINDY
Me too!  Me too!

BIGGS
Leia's leaving!  Leia's leaving and you gotta say good-bye.

The king picks up Windy and swings him around, then puts him down.

KAYOS
Okay, whippersnapper, go tell your mother and your sister that I'm on my way.

The two boys run out of the room and are heard yelling and screaming down the
hallway.  The king starts out, but stops in front of the general.

KAYOS
Luke, my daughter is leaving for the academy at Chathos.  Won't you come and
wish her well?  It would mean a lot to her.  She truly idolizes you, you know.

Come on, the war will wait.

GENERAL
Of course.  I'm sorry, My Lord.  Politics always seem to distress me.

The general rises, and as they head for the door, Kayos pats him on the back.

KAYOS
I know, Luke.  I feel the Force also.

15.  COURTYARD - PALACE OF LITE - AQUILAE

A large, four-seat speeder sits gleaming in the sun-soaked courtyard.  The
Princess Leia, about fourteen years old, possessing a soft beauty and iron
will, is embracing her mother, Queen Breha, a warm, silver-haired matron.
There are tears in the princess' blue eyes.  Biggs and Windy jump around
inside the speeder, disrupting the efforts of the one-armed Amber to pack
several plaxiform cases.

Leia embraces the king as he approaches with the general.

LEIA
Oh, Daddy, I'll miss you so.

KAYOS
The semester will be over before you know it.  You'll have a grand time.
There are so many new things to learn.  I wish I were going.

He gives her a fatherly smile, and she hugs him again.  The general stands
rather formally to one side.  The princess, her long auburn hair tied in
braids, moves to the general and he bows before her.

GENERAL
May your studies do you honor.

Leia is somewhat embarrassed by the general's formality and can only manage an
awkward smile before returning to her parents at the speeder.

BREHA
Hurry Leia.  You must make it to Yuell before nightfall.

The princess' maids-in-waiting, Alana, a short, stocky girl, and Mina, more
comely (somewhat the same stature as Leia) with long dark hair, giggle and
straighten Leia's dress before she enters the speeder.  The princess and Mina
hug Alana, whose giggles have turned to tears.  The two boys scramble out of
the speeder as Amber helps the princess and her maid into the back seat.  The
speeder is piloted by a trooper of the First Order.  Amber jumps into the seat
beside him, and the speeder starts with a low buzzing sound.  The princess
waves to her family, and Mina waves to Alana as the speeder slowly glides out
of the courtyard.

16.  WAR ROOM - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The war room is a mass of glass enclosures, electronic wall displays,
monitors, and computer stations.  General Skywalker enters a control station,
followed by a covey of military aides of various ranks.  As the group hurry
through the crowded room, men rise and salute the new arrivals.  The general
stops before a giant display of the galaxy.  Small symbols flash on and off
over various portions of the big board.  The general studies it intently.

GENERAL
Montross!

Captain Montross, one of the general's aides, snaps to attention.

MONTROSS
Sir!

GENERAL
What's the TQ on this?

MONTROSS
The last frigate to leave the Imperial capital was at twenty-three forty, Sir.

GENERAL
Have any ships at all left the planet?  (to another aide)  Check with the
Guild on Horton three.

MONTROSS
At twenty four hundred, a full battalion of stardestroyers left for what is
projected to be Anchorhead, or a nearby System.

GENERAL
And no word from Whitsun.  He should have reported by now.  Captain Prue!

An older, academic looking aide, steps forward.

PRUE
Sir!

GENERAL
What do you make of this?

PRUE
A battalion is invasion force...but the Empire controls that entire part of
the galaxy....A revolution, maybe.  At any rate, they're going in the wrong
direction to be any trouble for us.

The general ponders this for a few moments, then speaks almost to himself.

GENERAL
I don't know... It doesn't feel good.

MONTROSS
Sir?

GENERAL
Put 'em on alert.

A loud uproar is heard on the far side of the war room.  Everyone turns to see
a foreign dressed warrior pushing his way past several guards and war-room
bureaucrats.  The warrior, with his long hair tied in an odd bun on the top of
his head, is Kane Starkiller.  He is followed by his son, Annikin, who rudely
pushes the pesky bureaucrats out of the way.

BUREAUCRATS
It's restricted.  You'll have to wait...(etc.)

KANE
Get out of my way, boy, before I grind you into the surface...(etc.)

As the dauntless Starkiller approaches the general, the guards stop in
bewilderment as General Skywalker rushes up to the warrior and embraces him.
The two Jedi warriors laugh jubilantly and slap one another, as the aides and
bureaucrats look on in amazement.

GENERAL
Kane Starkiller - you old muscle-rat!  What a sight!  We heard that you had
been executed.

KANE
So the Empire would like to believe.  I've been in the Kessil System.  You
remember little Annikin.

Kane puts his arms around his son, who has been making eyes at one of the cute
young female aides.  He bows before the General.

GENERAL
He takes after his mother!  (They laugh)  It's so good to see you.

KANE
It's wonderful to be with another Jedi again.  There are so few of us left.

The cute aide goes back to her duties, flirting with Annikin as she passes.
The young warrior pinches her on the ass, which startles her, but she goes on
like nothing happened.

GENERAL
What a sight!

The two Jedi stand looking at one another, hardly believing the other is real.

Finally, the general realizes his aides are standing around, gawking at the
duo.

GENERAL (to the aids)
Wake up, gentlemen.  You're on alert.  Keep me posted on that battalion.

17.  CONTROL STATION - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The general, Starkiller, and his son enter a small glass enclosed control
office.  They sit, and an awkward silence passes as each man waits for the
other to speak.

KANE
I've come for your help.

GENERAL
Anything you ask.  You're a Jedi brother.  We're one.

KANE
My friend, we've been through much together...I've been through much since we
parted.  I've lost much... The Empire has chased us half way across the
galaxy... There is no refuge.  One day they will come here... Take my son as
your Padawan Learner.  He would be a Jedi.  I've trained him from birth.  He's
reached the fifth stage.  He fought in the Kessilian civil wars and commanded
a Hubble expedition to the Cone Systems.  He's a good boy, Luke, and one hell
of a fighter.

The general looks down, somewhat embarrassed.  He scratches his head, then
smiles.

GENERAL
Old friend, you do me too much honor.  I was never a match for you.  Why don't
you finish his training yourself?

KANE
I'm too old, Luke.  I can't go on... You must finish it.

GENERAL
What kind of talk is this?  You're not the old Starkiller I remember.  Too
old?!?

Starkiller suddenly ignites in a rage and swings his left forearm down with a
mighty blow across the solid chrome desk the general is sitting on.  The old
Jedi warrior's forearm cracks in two, spewing forth wires, and many fine
multicolored electronic components.  The artificial limb flops lifelessly to
Starkiller's side.  The warrior rips open his tunic, revealing a plastic chest
stuffed with flashing electric parts.

KANE (angrily)
I'm not the same.  There is nothing left but my head and right arm... I've
lost too much, Luke...I'm dying.

The general bows his head in sorrow for one of the greatest warriors in the
galaxy and a dear friend.

GENERAL
I'm sorry...

KANE
I'm sorry.  I keep losing control.  I'm very tired...Take my son!  The Jedi-
Bendu must survive.  We must pass it on.  Only a Jedi can stop the Empire.
We're very old, Luke.  A new generation of Jedi must be started.  Take him;
teach him the way of the Jedi-Bendu...

Captain Montross bursts into the office and somewhat excitedly salutes the
general.

MONTROSS
Sir, we have picked up something!  An asteroid, or solid comet moving away
from the Anchorhead System.

18.  WAR ROOM - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The general rushes out of the control station and back to the giant Galactic
display.  He is followed by Montross, Starkiller and his son.

GENERAL
Are you sure it's not the battalion?

MONTROSS
A solid object.  It's as big as our Third Moon.

PRUE
It's too large to be man-made, and it's too slow to be a comet.

GENERAL
Analysis?

MONTROSS
It's too far out.

GENERAL
I'll be with the king.  Report as soon as you can get a reading on it.
(turning to Kane's son)  Captain Starkiller, from now on you stick close to
me.

The older Starkiller smiles, and puts his good arm around his old friend.

19.  DINING CHAMBER - PALACE OF LITE - AQUILAE

King Kayos moves his arm around Breha's waist as they stand on a balcony
watching the giant twin suns of Aquilae disappear behind a distant dune range.

The general enters, rather in a rush, followed by the young Starkiller, who is
now dressed in the white uniform of the Aquilaean starforce.  (He still wears
the distinctive Kessilian hair knot.)  They bow before the king.

KAYOS (pointing to the suns)
Aren't they beautiful, General?  "Always and never the same."  You're just in
time for dinner.

GENERAL
I have come for other reasons.  Could....

KAYOS
Relax, General.  We will discuss it, but over dinner.  There are times, Luke,
when I find you a bit too rigid.  Is this your new disciple?

Starkiller is ill at ease and bows again.

STARKILLER
Annikin Starkiller, Sir.

KAYOS
Where's Kane?

GENERAL
He left for the spaceport at Gordon to visit an old friend, Han Solo, the
Ureallian.

KAYOS
We are becoming quite a refuge.

The group sits at a large table, and food is brought in by servants.  They
eat.  Starkiller is nervous and watches the general, to make sure he is being
proper.

GENERAL
My Lord, several events have occurred which lead me to believe we are in
imminent danger of attack.  There is no longer time for discussion and
debate...

KAYOS
What events?

GENERAL
Whitsun, our best agent, has disappeared in the Imperial capital.  There is
unusual military traffic in the S-4 sectors...

KAYOS
Unless you have direct, concrete proof of a pending attack, there is nothing I
can do.

GENERAL
By the time we have proof, it may be too late.

KAYOS
Luke, I'm leaving tonight for Amsel.  I'm meeting with the full assembly first
thing in the morning.  I am not going to approve the Alliance Treaty, and I
will get your defense measure approved.  Just be patient.  You will have the
war code.

GENERAL
Tomorrow may be too late.  My Lord, I need the war code now.  We must get our
forces into space.

KAYOS
But it must be done legally, with everyone's approval.  Tomorrow you will have
that.  I doubt the Empire would attack before receiving our answer.  The
separation of war powers is the one condition upon which you assumed command
of our forces.  You're a friend, Luke, and  I trust you.  But you're also an
outlander who controls a great deal of power.  I can't forsake my oath any
more than you can.  Just be patient.  You will have the code tomorrow.

Captain Montross enters the large chamber and bows before the king.

MONTROSS
I bring a report to General Skywalker, My Lord.

KAYOS
You may deliver it.

MONTROSS
Sir, the asteroid has disappeared from our scopes.  There is no trace of it.

GENERAL
Were they able to analyze it?

MONTROSS
It never came within range, Sir.

The general rises, quickly followed by Starkiller.

GENERAL
Excuse us, My Lord.  We'd better get back.  I will wait patiently for the
approval.

The general and Montross exit the chamber.  Starkiller takes one last bite of
his dinner, then dashes after his mentor.

20.  WAR ROOM - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The general sits rigidly, facing the big Galactic display board.  Several
aides and bureaucrats rush to and fro, ignoring the general.  he is asleep.
Captain Prue approaches the general and snaps to attention.  The general's
eyes open.

GENERAL
What are the results?

PRUE
Negative, Sir.

GENERAL
Are you sure?

PRUE
Absolutely.

GENERAL
It's just not possible.  Something that size can't just disappear without a
trace...Check it again.

PRUE
That's the tenth negative, Sir.

GENERAL
I said check it again.

Captain Prue retreats to a computer station.  The general looks around for
Starkiller.

GENERAL
Starkiller!

Everyone near the general turns, but Starkiller doesn't show.

GENERAL
Where is that boy?  Montross!

Montross rushes to the general and snaps to attention.

GENERAL
Page Starkiller.

Montross goes back to his station and a few moments later, Starkiller is paged
over the P.A. system.  The general waits, watching the big board.  Eventually,
Starkiller stumbles out of an enclosed computer closet, fastening his pants
and tucking in his tunic.  A moment later, the cute female aide rather
sheepishly exits the computer closet.  She is also in the process of putting
her uniform back together.  Starkiller rushes up to the general and snaps to
attention.

The general lets him stand there for a moment, not acknowledging his presence;
then, suddenly, without warning and in one masterful flash motion, the general
stands, grabs a small baton attached to his belt (which immediately ignites
into a four-foot glowing lasersword,) and swings at the young warrior's head.
In an equally quick movement, Starkiller ignites his lasersword and blocks the
general's blow.  Everyone in the war room is surprised and startled.  After a
moment, they rush to the general.  Starkiller and the general stand motionless
for a few moments, with laserswords locked in mid-air, creating a low buzzing
sound.  Finally, the general grins, and Starkiller hesitantly relaxes.  They
lower their swords and turn them off.

GENERAL
You are trained well, but remember, a Jedi must be single-minded, a discipline
your father obviously never learned, hence your existence.  Clean yourself up.

Discipline is essential.  Your mind must follow the way of the Bendu.

STARKILLER
It won't happen again, Sir.  There are many new....

P.A.
General Skywalker, white com.

The general moves to a control station and picks up a phone.

PHONE VOICE
Sir, Captain Whitsun has just been admitted to Med Vac.

GENERAL
What's his condition?

PHONE VOICE
No data, Sir.

GENERAL
I'm on my way.

21.  MED VAC EMERGENCY ROOM - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS

Captain Starkiller waits in an outer chamber as General Skywalker rushes into
the Med Vac emergency room where several doctors are working on the prostrate
Whitsun.

GENERAL
What's his condition?  Is he conscious?

DOCTOR
Partially.  He's be all right - a few bruises, primary exhaustion....

Whitsun thrashes around in a semi-conscious state.  He sees the general.

GENERAL
What happened, boy?  What's going on?

WHITSUN (with difficulty)
The Imperial Starforce is already on its way, not far behind me... They're
going to attack.

GENERAL
Are you sure?

WHITSUN
I have tapes...A giant space fortress....

He struggles to give General Skywalker his ring.

GENERAL
As big as our Third Moon?

WHITSUN
Bigger.  It's unlike anything I've ever seen.  Sophisticated deflection
systems.... work in opposition to the suns.

GENERAL
They will show up on our screens at sunrise.  They'll attack before that.

The general rushes into the outer chamber where Captain Starkiller is waiting
for him.

GENERAL
Take the fastest landspeeder to Chathos.  Pick up Princess Leia... and only
Princess Leia.  Return by way of the Great Reef.  Most speed.

Starkiller exits and the general goes to an intercom and pushes several
buttons.

GENERAL
Montross.

MONTROSS
Sir!

GENERAL
Full alert....everything!  Get the Royal Family back here.

MONTROSS
The princess is at Chathos.  There are no transports....

GENERAL
I've already sent Captain Starkiller for her!  Contact the king, first
priority.  He's probably still en route to Amsel.  Use the scan com.  I'm on
my way.

22.  WAR ROOM - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The war room is on full alert.  Everyone is at attention, waiting for the
command that will put them into action.  The general enters a communication
center, followed by many aides.  Captain Montross and the com aide salute.

MONTROSS
We're having a problem getting through, Sir.  There is a great deal of
interference.

PRUE
It could be jamming.

GENERAL
Try a surface link through Amsel.

The aides go back to the com-link system to try to get a line through to the
king.

PRUE
We should be able to spot them at sunrise....That's not too far off.

GENERAL
They'll attack with sunrise.  Until the king gives us that code to start the
war computers, we'll just have to sit tight.

PRUE
All units are on alert, Sir.

GENERAL (to Montross)
Have you made contact yet?  (to himself)  This is one hell of a way to run a
war.

PRUE
Sir?

23.  COURTYARD - ACADEMY OF CHATHOS - AQUILAE

A landspeeder roars into a courtyard of the Academy at Chathos.  Starkiller
jumps out, and runs up to the large, heavy doors of the academy.  They are
locked.  He bangs madly on the carved metallic door, until finally an old
woman manages to swing it open.  Starkiller rushes past her into the main
courtyard where Princess Leia and her hand-maiden, Mina, struggle with two
large cases.  They are followed by two very old matrons, dragging several more
cases.

STARKILLER
Forget the cases - we've no time.

LEIA
These are my things.  They must...

STARKILLER
I said forget them, and hurry...

LEIA
Just who do you think you are?

Starkiller grabs the princess by the arm, and hauls her to the speeder.  Mina
and the old women run after them.

LEIA
I will not be treated like this!   You bring my things.... My father will have
your head... (etc.)

Leia struggles to break away from the young warrior's grasp as he opens the
door of the speeder.

STARKILLER
Settle down!

When the door to the speeder is opened, Mina starts in, and Starkiller stops
her.

STARKILLER
You must stay.  Here, take the Crest.

Starkiller rips the royal crest from the princess' neck, and hands it to the
startled handmaiden.  The old women gasp in horror.  The princess starts
hitting Starkiller with little result.

PRINCESS
Mina's not staying...I'm not leaving her.  You can't....

Starkiller punches her square on the jaw and knocks her cold.  Mina is panic
stricken, one of the old women faints, and another starts for Starkiller with
a large staff.

STARKILLER
She'll be all right.  I'm taking her to safety...as ordered.  You will wear
the crest and continue as before.

The authority of Starkiller's voice stops the old lady.  He places the
princess into the speeder, and maneuvers it out of the courtyard.  Mina puts
on the crest as the speeder races away from the academy.

24.  WAR ROOM - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Queen Breha, Biggs and Windy are escorted into a rest area of the war room.
General Skywalker sits rigidly in a chair in the communications area,
apparently asleep.

MONTROSS
Sir, we've made contact!

The general opens his eyes and takes the intercom mike.

KAYOS
What is it, General?

GENERAL
The Empire will attack on the rising of the sun.  My agent made it back.  I
now have proof.  I need the war code...

KAYOS
I'll relay it directly to the computer.  Is Breha...?

GENERAL
The Royal Family is safe.  Starkiller has gone after Princess Leia...

KAYOS
I'm on my way back.

25.  RED PLAINS - AQUILAE

The small caravan of four speeders sits motionless on the vast red plains of
Aquilae.  The king returns the intercom to the pilot and takes a small
metallic card from around his neck and gives it to the co-pilot.

KAYOS
Send this sub-land, priority one.  (to the pilot)  Get us back to Calvas
immediately!

The four speeders turn around and scream away in the direction they had come.
They pass a huge ultrasleek powerplow, planting green fungus in endless
furrows.  Two clay-covered farmers, riding atop the ponderous machine, watch
the speeders disappear over the horizon, and into the rising twin suns.  A
bright object, twinkling in early morning heavens, catches the eye of the
older of the two farmers, and he brings the machine to a lumbering halt.  The
younger farmer also notices the object, and stares skyward, shading his eyes
to get a better view.

Suddenly there is a huge, bright atomic flash on the horizon.  A few moments
later, a thunderous shaking, followed by high winds, tumbles the older farmer
from his perch.  A second flash on the opposite horizon brings another jolting
earthquake, and the younger farmer collapses, terror frozen on his face.

26.  READYROOM - SPACEPORT OUTPOST - AQUILAE

Chaos.  Red scramble lights are flashing.  Alert horns and attack buzzers
create an unbelievable cacophony.  Air warriors, with the distinctive circle
and cross medallion on their white space suits, scramble out of the low,
concrete readyroom, grabbing helmets and spacepacks as they race out of the
door.

27.  ATTACK RUNWAY - SPACEPORT OUTPOST - AQUILAE

Twelve pilots and navigators dash in unison to a line of waiting two-man
starships of the destroyer class.  Ground crews scurry back and forth, loading
last-minute armament, and unlocking power couplings.  Pilot Leader, a rugged,
handsome boy of twenty, gives his ground crew a signal that his is okay.  He
has a winning smile and a distinctive scar along the side of his face.  His
crew chief pats him on the back.

CHIEF
Knock them all the way back to Alderaan.

The canopy is closed and the powerful starship moves onto the runway.  Other
crewmen say good-bye to their pilots, some grin, some kidding - all with a
great deal of hidden emotion.  The din of two dozen retrorockets cuts through
the uproar, and six silver spacecraft leave the runway, and disappear into the
morning cloud cover.

28.  WAR ROOM - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The general stands before a giant display of the Aquilaean solar system.
Montross signals the general.

MONTROSS
They're away, Sir.  Six from Gordon.  All other spaceports were hit.  The king
hasn't arrived yet.

GENERAL
Keep checking.  Put those fighters' intercom over the P.A.

The general sits at one of the intercom panels, and puts on a headphone.  A
row of monitors is before him.  He turns to Montross.

GENERAL
Where are they?

29.  SPACE - AQUILAE IN ECLIPSE

The eerie, reddish-yellow planet of Aquilae slowly drifts into view from total
eclipse.  A small, bright speck, orbiting the planet, sparkles in the light of
the twin suns.  The six deadly Aquilaean starships settle ominously into the
foreground, moving swiftly toward the orbiting speck.  As the sleek starships
move closer, the orbiting speck is revealed to be a gargantuan space fortress.

The moon-sized satellite fortress dwarfs the approaching fighters.  Every few
moments, explosions create blinding flash on the planet's surface, as the
fortress bombards the planet with a fusillade of laser bolts.

30.  AQUILAEAN STARSHIP - INTERIOR

Pilot Leader, in the first ship, signals to his navigator who sits in a small,
isolated glass bubble to the rear of the craft.  General Skywalker is seen on
one of many monitors.  A view of the space fortress is on another.  The rest
are filled with various computer readouts and displays.  One of the other
starships reports to Pilot Leader.

DEVIL SIX (intercom)
Look at the size of that thing!  Hey, Bowman, I hope you remembered to bring
your pop gun, 'cause I think we caught us a big one this time....

PILOT LEADER
Cut off, Devil Six....Stand by.

GENERAL (monitor)
It looks like they're still using the basic quad-tristation configuration.
Use a "ranger defense."  Concentrate on breath ports and lock areas.

PILOT LEADER
Affirmative base...Copy and transmit....Devil Two, check your rotation plates.

DEVIL TWO
Roger, Boss.  We're getting a threshold disturbance on gyro-three.

GENERAL (monitor)
Switch over, Five, cover it! ...Devil pack, generate a spread six
formation...May the force of others protect you.

PILOT
Settle in...Devil pack, stand by.  Mark five...break off.  Here we go.  God
save us all.

31.  SPACE - AQUILAEAN STARSHIP

Fuel pods are jettisoned.  The half-dozen fighters break off into a powerline
attack on the huge fortress.  Multiple laserbolts streak from the starships,
creating small explosions on the complex surface of the fort.

32.  INTERIOR MAIN CORRIDOR - IMPERIAL SPACE FORTRESS

The chaos of battle echoes through the vast corridors of the fortress.  Walls
buckle and cave in, sucking debris and personnel into the vacuum of outer
space.  Alarm sirens scream as soldiers scramble to large turbo-powered laser
gun emplacements.  Sergeants yell orders through the smoke and confusion.  Men
and robots of various shapes and sizes run to their battle stations.

33.  WAR ROOM - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The monitors with pictures from the starships suddenly go blank.  Technicians
check channels as others in the war room silently listen to the action over
the intercom.  The general remains calm, but concerned.

PILOT LEADER (intercom)
Tighten it up... Devil Two, tighten it up.  Watch those towers....

DEVIL TWO (CHEWIE)
Heavy fire, Boss.  Twenty-three degrees.

PILOT LEADER
I see it.  Pull in... we're picking up some interference.

DEVIL SIX
Wow, I've never seen such fire power.

PILOT LEADER
Pull in, Devil Two...Pull in!  Chewie???!!

DEVIL TWO (CHEWIE)
I'm all right, Boss.  I've got a target.

DEVIL SIX
There is too much action, Chewie.  Get out!

PILOT LEADER
Break off, Chewie....Acknowledge.  Devil Six, can you see Devil Two?

DEVIL SIX
I've lost him.  There's a very heavy fire zone on this side.  My radar's
jammed.

DEVIL FIVE
He's gone....no, wait.  There he is...Fin damage, but he's all right.

A sigh of relief sweeps across the war room.  The monitors flash on, then off
again.

DEVIL FOUR (intercom)
Watch your back, Boss!  Watch your back!!

34.  AQUILAEAN STARSHIP

The speedy little fighters dart back and forth across the soft underbelly of
the fortress, leaving a trail of destruction behind them.

PILOT LEADER
Converge on south axis point, point three nine four.  It appears accessible.
I'm going to map the surface.  Devil Four, cover me!

Pilot Leader and Devil Four dive in unison through a forest of radar domes,
antennae, and gun towers.  Devil Four fires into the protrusions as the two
starships criss-cross the surface of the fortress.  Suddenly, a dense barrage
of laserfire erupts from a tower, catching Devil Four broadside.  The
spacecraft bursts into a million flaming pieces.  Pilot Leader reacts to the
loss of his wing man, but continues on his mission.

35.  SUB-HALLWAY - IMPERIAL SPACE FORTRESS

Constant explosions rock the interior of the fortress.  Civilians, including
women and children, scurry for safety in the panic-ridden hallways.  Two
construction robots, Artwo Detwo (R2D2) and See Threepio (C3P0), are blown,
slipping and sliding across the hallway floor into some freight canisters.
Both robots are rather old and battered.  Artwo is a short, (three feet) claw-
armed tri-pod.  His face is a mass of computer lights, surrounding a radar
eye.  Threepio is a tall, gleaming android of human proportions.  He is thin,
with a totally metallic surface of an Art Deco design.  The robots attempt to
get out from under the canisters, but rushing gas from a broken pipe keeps
knocking them over.

THREEPIO
This is madness; we're going to be destroyed.  I'm still not accustomed to
space travel.

ARTWO
The external bombardment does appear to be concentrated in this area.  The
structure has exceeded the normal stress quotient by point four, although
there appears to be no immediate danger.

THREEPIO
No immediate danger!  You're faulty.  This is madness!

Artwo gives Threepio a sheepish look and clings to a siderail for dear life,
as debris flies through the hallway.

36.  AQUILAEAN STARSHIP

Devil Two (Chewie), a young hotshot of about sixteen years, miraculously dives
his ship through a virtual wall of laser fire, and blasts a huge radar disc
into dust.  Chewie signals his navigator, who lets out a whooping cheer, as
the craft veers into a victory roll.

PILOT LEADER
Great moves, Chewie.  Regroup at point two, zero one.  Coincide, Devil Six.

GENERAL
Mace, your map projection shows a weak point at south portal:  niner point
six.  Concentrate the attack on that point.  Coordinate.

PILOT LEADER
I see it... It looks good.

Devil Five and Devil Three bob and weave in formation toward a giant
transformer jutting from the fort's surface.

DEVIL THREE
I've got a... We're hit.  We're hit.

PILOT LEADER
Eject...Eject.  Babs, Babs, do you read?

DEVIL THREE
I'm okay.  I can hold it.  Clear me a little, Devil Five... Watch it!  Watch
it!

Devil Three wobbles a little, then drops away sharply, plowing into a lasergun
emplacement, causing a hideous series of chain reaction explosions.

37.  SUB-HALLWAY - IMPERIAL SPACE FORTRESS

A huge explosion rips a large hole in the ceiling of a subhallway.  Artwo and
Threepio are in a state of shock as they scramble through the rubble.  There
is a constant sound of creaking and snapping as the sections of the hallway
resettle in the fortress superstructure.

ARTWO
You're a mindless, useless philosopher... Come on!  Let's go back to work; the
system is all right.

THREEPIO
You overweight glob of grease.  Quit following me.  Get away.  Get away.

Suddenly, the hallway lurches, and a dead trooper falls through a gaping hole
in the ceiling.  The foot of the carcass is caught in the rubble and it hangs
upside down, staring at the two robots.  Artwo grabs Threepio, and they cling
to each other in terror.

ARTWO
We're lost.  We're destroyed.

Three sharp blasts from an airhorn send the two androids running for cover in
a burned-out doorway.  Five grim-faced troopers riding small rocket platforms
pass the two mechanical men.

38.  GOVERNOR'S QUARTERS - IMPERIAL SPACE FORTRESS

The five troopers race through several hallways, and finally stop in front of
an important looking office complex.  Two officers dismount and enter the
complex.  They pass through several heavily guarded doorways until they reach
the main chamber.  Seated behind a large, cluttered desk surrounded by
generals and attaches is Governor Hoedaack.  General Vader paces in front of a
row of blank monitors.  The two officers salute General Vader.

FIRST OFFICER
All com-link power is out.  Twenty-two transformer sections have been
destroyed.  The situation is grave on all southern levels.  Com-link
communication should be repaired shortly.

The officers salute, turn and leave the chamber.  The general turns to
Governor Hoedaack, who looks a little worried.

VADER
Don't look so worried.  Not even a Jedi could penetrate this fortress...We've
already wiped out most of their forces.

HOEDAACK
If it goes on too long, we'll run over budget.  When do the landings begin?

VADER
As soon as the attack has been broken:  not long.

A short, stocky attache salutes the general.

ATTACHE
Contamination has set in on quadrants B-5 and R-4.  All sections are sealed.
We've lost two major power stations in the southern quadrants.  That puts
section 5-1 in serious trouble.

The general turns away in controlled anger and embarrassment.

39.  WAR ROOM - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The general sits in a glass enclosed computer station, watching the battle
progress on several monitors.  An officer enters and salutes the general.

OFFICER
Analysis reports those ZQ configurations are definitely power
transformers...Everything in the southern sectors of the fortress is out.

GENERAL SKYWALKER
I'm surprised they are still using external power units.  It's a definite weak
point.  Concentrate on searching for the main crosslink transformer.

The officer exits as Montross rushes in.

MONTROSS
The senate has voted to end the war.

GENERAL
They can't do anything without the king's approval; which gives us a little
time...Have you been able to regain contact with the king?

MONTROSS
No, Sir.  All ground communications are jammed.

GENERAL
Send four men..from third squad, to meet the king, and escort him back.  Let
me know before he arrives.  Is Starkiller back with the princess?

MONTROSS
No, Sir.  They're long overdue.

Pilot Leader checks in over the intercom.

PILOT LEADER
All right, base one, we're in position.

An officer with headphones looks to the general.  He signals to attack.

40.  AQUILAEAN STARSHIPS

All four starships dive in formation toward a main transformer area, flanked
by several solar towers.

PILOT LEADER
Hold your fire until we're within point zero five four... Make it count.

Several ack-ack lasers begin to open fire on the approaching spacecraft.  The
starships direct their fire at a large black transformer, which when hit,
spurts bright blue and white electrical arcs.  One of the starships (Devil
Five) explodes and careens out of formation, leaving an erratic trail of
smoke, before eventually crashing into a solar panel.

41.  SUB-HALLWAYS - IMPERIAL SPACE FORTRESS

The impact of the exploding starship can be felt throughout the giant
fortress.  The tall, gleaming Threepio races through several corridors,
yelling at Artwo, who struggles vainly to e keep pace with his stubby
mechanical feet.

THREEPIO
....I don't care what you do, but I'm getting out.  All the power's out.
Those explosions are coming from the reactor section.  This is the end.
Abandon ship.

ARTWO
Our work - we can't leave!  It's desertion.  It's not possible.  It's not
possible.

THREEPIO
Your programming is so limited.  My first order is preservation.  You stay.
I'm going to eject before the whole thing goes up.

Threepio breaks open the seal on an emergency lifepod.  A red warning light
begins to flash, and a low hum is heard.  The lanky chrome android works his
way into the cramped four-man craft.

ARTWO
These lifepods aren't for us!  It's not right!

A new explosion, this time very close, sends dust and debris through the
narrow passageway.  Flames lick at the two robots.  The runt-sized Artwo jumps
into the lifepod.

ARTWO
It's the end.  Eject.  Eject.

The safety door snaps shut, and the pod ejects from the fortress.

42.  AQUILAEAN STARSHIPS

The terrified androids in the lifepod speed away from the fortress, and pass
the attacking starships.

DEVIL TWO
Object approaching.  Attack bearing...

DEVIL FOUR
It's a lifepod.  Forget it.  We've got...

Devil Four is hit by laser fire, and disintegrates, leaving a trail of flaming
particles.  The two remaining craft continue the assault.  Chewie and Pilot
Leader watch the remains of Devil Four disappear.  The general appears over
one of the monitors.

GENERAL
Analysis indicates transformer code zero three is the main relay.  Hit it, and
the whole thing goes dead.

PILOT LEADER
We're on our way.

43.  GOVERNOR'S QUARTERS - IMPERIAL SPACE FORTRESS

A row of monitors and the main overhead lights go on, and a trooper appears on
one of the screens.

TROOPER
Internal relays operative.  All power restored.  All contaminated areas
sealed.

An officer appears on another monitor.

OFFICER
Only two enemy craft remain operative.  We calculate victory by zero three
hundred.

General Vader switches to another monitor.

VADER
Alert the invasion forces.  (turning to the governor).  The planet is ours.  A
three hour war.  You expected longer.  Jedi or not, we've beaten him, and the
culture is intact.

HOEDAACK
A truly great prize for the Empire.  They have a treasure of biotic science.
Genetics, cloning - they've added two-hundred years to a lifespan.  Remember,
you must capture at least one member of the Royal Family alive.  The Aquilae
family has ruled this system for ten thousand years.  The people will follow
no other.  If the royal line is broken, there is a good chance the entire
population will destroy themselves and their knowledge before submitting to
our rule.

The general is interrupted by a call on one of the monitors.

OFFICER (on monitor)

We've received a message from the planet....

44.  WAR ROOM - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

General Skywalker watches a giant computer display of the space fortress
mapped by the starships.  An aide approaches.

AIDE
Sir!  The king's convoy has destroyed at Caldin.  All the bodies were
contaminated.

GENERAL
I will audience with the queen.... Who knows of this?

AIDE
Many.  It came through civilian sources.

GENERAL
Confine Senator Sandage to his quarters.  Use any pretext.  Where is the
senator now?

Sandage and several other senators enter the computer station.

SANDAGE
Right here, General...It's over.  We've already relayed peace terms to the
Empire, and they've been accepted.  Your war has ended.

The general is angry and stands pointing at the senators.  They jump back, as
if the general were pointing a gun at them.

GENERAL
Senator, this war isn't over.  It's just begun.  I take my commands from the
Royal Family.

SANDAGE
The queen concurs.  I have her written decree.  It is to be implemented
immediately..... I order you to cease the attack.

GENERAL
Not likely...

SANDAGE
Treason?  Revolution?  The people won't follow you, General...nor will your
troops.  I suggest you follow your orders.

General Skywalker stands angrily pondering the situation.  Sandage and the
other senators are tense, a little afraid that he might cut them down on the
spot.

SANDAGE
Well, General?

45.  LIFEPOD - SKY OVER AQUILAE

The reddish-yellow mass of Aquilae seems to engulf the tiny lifepod containing
the two fleeing androids.

ARTWO
It's desertion.  They'll destroy us.  How could this happen?

THREEPIO
That's funny.  The damage doesn't look as bad from out here.

46.  AQUILAEAN STARSHIPS

Pilot Leader and Devil Two make a second dive on the now smoldering
transformer area.  All firing from the fortress suddenly stops.  Pilot Leader
looks back to his navigator, who is equally puzzled.  The two fighters
continue to attack the now silent fortress.

CHEWIE (DEVIL TWO)
I don't get it.  What do you think, Boss?

General Skywalker appears on the monitors.

GENERAL (with difficulty)
Base one to Devil Leader...Scramble code niner.  Break your attack, and return
to base.  Repeat, break your attack.  Confirm.

PILOT LEADER
They're hurt, Sir, but they still have power.  We should finish....

GENERAL
Break off.  The war is over.  Run on white lights.  Get back here, Mace.
We're going to need you.

PILOT LEADER
Confirmed, base one.  We're on our way.  Did you copy, Chewie?

DEVIL TWO
Roger, Boss.

The two starfighters break off the attack and start back toward the planet.
Without warning, the fort directs concentrated fire at the two starfighters.
Devil Two instantly bursts into flames, then disintegrates.  Pilot Leader's
tail section is hit, and the ship pinwheels toward the planet.  Blood covers
Pilot Leader's immobile face.

PILOT LEADER'S NAVIGATOR
We're under fire...They're still shooting.  I thought it was over.  We're hit!

We're hit!  Pilot is dead....Ejecting.

The dead "Pilot Leader" is jettisoned free of the craft, but the navigator's
eject panel is dead.  He struggles with it, then bangs on the canopy to no
avail.  The navigator is still trapped in the craft when it explodes, leaving
only a puff of pink smoke reflected in the rim light of the planet.

47.  DESERT NEAR OUTPOST - AQUILAE

Pilot Leader's dead body drifts toward his arid mother-planet.  Automatic
rockets kick-in occasionally, to direct and soften the landing.  Two grey-clad
troopers stand next to a military "landspeeder;" watching the descending
airwarrior through electrobinoculars.  Mace's corpse hits the ground rather
hard, creating a whirlwind of dust, and the two troopers rush over to the
pilot.  The younger of the two troopers, a young boy in his teens, cradles the
dead starpilot in his arms and begins to cry.

48.  WAR ROOM - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

General Skywalker sits alone, meditating in the deserted war room.  Montross
approaches the contemplative general.

MONTROSS
No sign of Starkiller or the princess.  There was much damage in that
area...The queen will see you at ten hundred.

The general doesn't reply.

49.  ASSEMBLY - DEPARTURE AREA - IMPERIAL SPACE FORTRESS

General Vader stands behind a row of men at computer control panels.  A
commander reports to the general.

COMMANDER
All enemy craft destroyed.  First and fifth division, troops and equipment
standing by.

The general gives a sly smile of approval and takes a microphone from one of
the computer technicians.  He speaks to the troops and pilots waiting in their
huge war machines for the invasion order.

VADER
The war is won.  With the conquering of this System we have ushered in a new
millenium for the Empire; which will echo throughout the universe.  Our reward
is the knowledge this system possesses.  This planet must be controlled with a
minimum of force, but you must not think lightly of this enemy.  They have
exacted a heavy toll.  Today you will make the Empire complete.  Do so with
pride and care.

Vader puts down the mike, and turns to his commander.

GENERAL
Let the invasion begin.

50.  EDGE OF THE DUNE SEA - AQUILAE

Jundland, or "no man's land," where the rugged desert mesas meet the
foreboding dune sea.  The two helpless astro robots kick up clouds of dust as
they clumsily work their way across the desert coastline.  The short Artwo
struggles desperately to keep up with the long-legged Threepio.

ARTWO
It's not possible.  We're not built for this.  You're nothing more than a dim-
witted, emotion-brained intellectual.  Why you were created is beyond my logic
systems.  Thanks to you, we're deserters, and will probably be destroyed on
sight.  And on top of that, you're going the wrong way!  All this filth is
getting....

The towering Threepio stops short and turns on the blabbering mechanical runt.

THREEPIO
I've had enough of you, you pragmatic, nearsighted scrap pile.  You go your
own way.

He picks up the tiny robot and tosses him several feet into a large sand dune.

Threepio starts off in the direction of the dune sea.  Artwo struggles to his
feet, and shakes a metallic claw arm at his disappearing ex-partner.

ARTWO
You'll be malfunctioning within a day.  You're going the wrong way, but your
way is always the wrong way.

Threepio stops and yells to the smaller android.

THREEPIO
And don't let me catch you following me, begging for help, because you won't
get it from me.

Artwo's reply is a rather rude sound, which only an electronic person could
make.  He turns and trudges off in the opposite direction into the rocky
desert mesas.

51.  DUNE SEA - AQUILAE

Threepio, hot and tired, struggles up over the ridge of a dune, only to find
more dunes, which seem to go on for endless miles.  He looks back in the
direction he came.

THREEPIO
You little malfunctioning twerp.  This is all your fault.  You tricked me into
going this way, but you'll do no better!

He sits in a huff of anger and frustration, knocking the sand from his joints.

52.  DESERT MESA - AQUILAE

Artwo stumbles through a narrow canyon until he climbs over a small boulder
and sees before him a sight he first thinks is a mirage.  Nestled in a rock
formation is a deserted landspeeder.  Once the little robot is convinced that
he is alone, he approaches the battered speeder and begins to analyze it.  He
climbs into the pilot's seat, and attempts to start the unfamiliar transport.
He hears a sound, and stops for a moment.  He sees nothing, so he continues to
fiddle with the control panel until the speeder lurches forward with a start,
banging into a large rock.  The stubby android is shaken, but neither he, nor
the speeder, seems to be damaged.

Shivers run down Artwo's metal spine, and again he has an eerie feeling that
he is being watched.  He slowly looks around, and sees a large man, Captain
Starkiller, standing directly behind him.  He is startled, then terrified.

STARKILLER
Where is your master?

The little robot clicks and rattles, but doesn't speak.

STARKILLER (Con't)
Can't you speak?  How do you relate your data?  You're of Karollian
manufacture...You should be able to talk.  Are you damaged?

Starkiller pokes at the machine, but doesn't see any damage.  Artwo eyes him
suspiciously.  The robot turns with a start and discovers a young girl,
Princess Leia, has been standing next to him for some time.

PRINCESS (sarcastic)
Well, General, who's your friend?

STARKILLER
I don't know.  He doesn't seem to be able to talk.  Damaged,
probably....Jettisoned from a damaged ship...

PRINCESS
What do you intend to do with it?

STARKILLER
We'll take it with us.  Could be a storehouse of valuable information.

Starkiller guides the android into the small luggage area behind the front
seat, then hops into the driver's seat.

PRINCESS
I don't want to ride with that hing.  I order you to destroy it immediately.

STARKILLER
Get in!  We've got to hurry if we're going to get across the "dunehedge" by
nightfall...You're coming, one way or the other.  Will you join us peaceably?

The princess reluctantly gets into the speeder, and it starts with a jolt.

53.  LANDSPEEDER - DESERT MESAS - AQUILAE

The speeder flies along, a foot or so above the landscape.

PRINCESS
You are such a barbarian.  I'll have my father cut you into little pieces when
we get back...and I'll take pleasure in feeding you to the Gonthas....a little
bit each day.  I may save your eyes though.  I'll have them petrified and made
into a necklace.

STARKILLER
Your sweetness is only surpassed by your beauty.  Just try to remember, I'm
only following orders.

PRINCESS
... to beat me and abuse me?

STARKILLER
I'm afraid I've only learned one way to treat wild animals.

Artwo thrashes about, trying to relieve the pressure on his crumped legs.

PRINCESS
You stay out of this.

54.  DUNE SEA

Threepio struggles to the top of a large dune.  He is dirty and hot.  His
plight seems hopeless.  He searches the horizon for any sign of life.  A glint
of reflected light in the distance reveals an object speeding toward him.  The
chrome android waves frantically, and yells at the approaching speeder.  The
sleek landspeeder races past him about a hundred yards away.  He runs after
it, screaming in desperation, until he stumbles and falls head over heels down
an enormous sand dune.  Silently, the speeder sweeps around in a circle and
stops behind the immobile robot.  Starkiller jumps out of the landspeeder and
is quickly followed by Artwo.

PRINCESS
We're in a hurry, remember!  If you're going to stop for everyone unfortunate
along the way, we'll never get back.  We're lucky you got the speeder running
as it is.

Artwo waddles up to his fallen partner and starts pulling on his leg, then
runs up and starts pulling on his arm.

ARTWO
Function!  Function!  It's me.  Come on, function.

STARKILLER
Well, my little friend, you've found your tongue.

ARTWO
We must help him... We've been lost.

STARKILLER
Where did you come from?

The little robot runs around his fallen partner giving him small electric
charges from his claw hand.  Threepio shudders from head to toe, then regains
consciousness.

THREEPIO
What happened?

ARTWO
You're overheated.

STARKILLER
Where did you come from?

ARTWO
We were jettisoned from six twenty-nine, P.R. one.

STARKILLER
I'm unfamiliar with that ship.  What type is it?

THREEPIO
It's a class M station, not a conventional craft.

Threepio then stands and shakes the young Jedi's hand.

THREEPIO (Con't)
I'm Seethreepio, Human-Cyborg Relations.  Your kindness is greatly
appreciated.

Starkiller and the two robots walk back to the speeder.

55.  Both Artwo and Threepio are stuffed into the tiny luggage compartment.
It is late in the day when the speeder rumbles to a stop in a small desert
canyon surrounded by steep cliffs and broken boulders.

STARKILLER
We'll rest here.

THREEPIO
At last.  The transport is welcome but my joints are frozen.

Everyone climbs out of the low-slung speeder.  Starkiller watches the two
androids as they stretch their mechanical limbs.

ARTWO
I've got a bad case of dust contamination.  I can barely move.

THREEPIO
What a foresaken place this is.  We seem to be made to suffer.  It's our lot
in life.  Sir, could you tell....

Threepio turns and notices that Starkiller and the princess have disappeared.
He looks all around.

THREEPIO
Where did they go?  They've disappeared.

ARTWO
Maybe they were attacked!  I sense danger!

55.  HIDDEN FORTRESS ENTRANCE - DESERT CANYON - AQUILAE [scene number - sic]

Captain Starkiller and Princess Leia hurry through a maze of large boulders,
until they reach a sheer rock face.  Starkiller looks around to see if they
were followed.  Suddenly, a large section of the rock slides away, revealing a
well-lit corridor carved out of the rock.  They enter, and are greeted by two
jubilant guards.  Starkiller gives them some orders and points in the
direction of the speeder.  The secret rock door silently slides closed.

57.  MAIN HALLWAY - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Starkiller and the princess are greeted by General Skywalker and Montross.
They bow before the princess.

PRINCESS (angrily pointing at Starkiller)
General, I want you to do something with this..this barbarian.  Where's my
father?

GENERAL
The king is dead, Your Highness.

All anger suddenly drains from the princess.  She almost timidly asks the next
question.

PRINCESS
My mother?... and brothers?

GENERAL
She's here.  She's safe...so are your brothers.  They're in the main chamber.

Leia, now looking more like a frightened young girl than a vindictive
princess, runs down the hallway toward the main chamber.  She vainly attempts
to hold back the tears.

58.  DESERT CANYON - AQUILAE

The two puzzled androids sit on the landspeeder, pondering the disappearance
of their saviour.

THREEPIO
Do you suppose we're in danger?

ARTWO
The logic of this environment escapes me.

As night begins to fall, and the shadows begin to lengthen, the two robots
begin to get a little edgy.  The sound of approaching feet startles Artwo, and
he ducks behind his taller friend.  Two guards approach the robots.

GUARD
You will remain calm, and you will remain here.

THREEPIO
Certainly.  I'm Seethreepio, Human-Cyborg Relations.  Your kindness is
gratefully appreciated.

Artwo sits rather suspiciously behind his extroverted friend.

59.  ROYAL CHAMBER - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

General Skywalker bows low before Princess Leia.  She sits on a raised
platform, dressed in the royal robes of a planetary ruler.  The queen sits off
to one side on a smaller platform.  The princess waits for a few moments
before she allows the general to rise.

QUEEN
The senate has been corrupted.

GENERAL
They cannot rule without your wish...

QUEEN
I rule by marriage.  With the king dead, I am not strong enough to stop
them... Leia is now the true queen... She must be protected.  The line must be
preserved.  I am placing the future of our people in your hands.  You must
deliver Leia and her brothers to the Ophuchi System.  They will be safe there.

General, you must understand, I had no alternative but to condone an end to
the hostilities.  I deeply believe your campaign could have been successful,
but there are things that...

GENERAL
I understand, Your Highness...

QUEEN
The chrome companies on Ophuchi have offered to supply you with the men and
ships necessary to return Leia to the throne.

GENERAL
Can the chrome companies be trusted?

QUEEN
The price for their cooperation is high.  It is waiting for you in Med Center
blue.  Guard it as you would the princess herself.  No-one must know of this
mission.  There are those among the trusted who would wish us ill.  Take only
two of your best officers with you, the most loyal.  May the force of others
be with you.

LEIA
Mother, you must not stay.

QUEEN
I am too old for such a journey.  The Empire already controls the spaceport
cities.  You have a long way to travel.  It won't be easy.

GENERAL
We will have to travel in disguise.  I must have full command.  No-one can
suspect wealth or royal training.  I fear the new queen will not stand for
this.

LEIA (angry)
Do not put words into my mouth.  I will stand for what is necessary.

The general simply smiles.

60.  SUB-HALLWAY - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The general walks briskly through an isolated hallway, closely followed by
Montross.

GENERAL
How is Captain Whitsun's recovery?

MONTROSS
Very good; he's up and around.

GENERAL
Fine!  Have Whitsun and...ah, Starkiller report at zero three hundred.  I want
two converted transports:  agricultural type, two days' provisions, travel
papers, weapons.  Contact Han Solo at the Gordon spaceport...I'll talk to
him... with speed!

Montross turns and rushes down another hallway.

61.  MEDICAL CENTER BLUE - UNDERGROUND FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The general enters a stark white waiting area filled with scholarly looking
gentlemen.  An attendant greets General Skywalker and takes him into a small
observation chamber overlooking a large operating theatre.  An elderly doctor
greets him.

DOCTOR
Good to see you, General.  I'm afraid we're not quite ready yet.  Thank God
you'll be the one taking them, though.

An attendant brings in one of the scholars from the waiting area and places
him on a large operating table surrounded by strange looking equipment.  An
ominous looking clamp is placed on the man's head.

GENERAL
How many are going?

DOCTOR
Thirty-three of the greatest scientific minds in our System...A high price for
freedom.

GENERAL
Thirty-three scientists!  Transporting a group that size, undetected... I
don't...

DOCTOR
Don't worry, General.  All you'll be taking are their minds.

The doctor moves over to a safe-like cabinet guarded by two attendants.  The
doctor gingerly picks up a small clear vial filled with grey fluid.  It has a
label which reads:  Faubun, Astro-dynamics...In the background the scholar on
the operating table is undergoing a form of mechanized brain surgery.

GENERAL
"Bloodory's distillation?"

DOCTOR
Yes.  It has been greatly perfected.  The brain is condensed into five ounces
of fluid.  Cloning cell samples are included so that a structural duplicate of
the scientist can be reproduced.  When the duplicate child reaches the age of
six, he or she begins a series of injections of the brain fluid.  By the age
of ten years, they have received all the knowledge and memory of an
experienced scientist:  an old mind in a young body.  We have prepared a
special shock-belt to carry the vials.

In the background, the limp body of the scholar on the operating table is
removed and another scientist is escorted into the operating threatre.  Dr.
Bloodory, a portly doctor in his forties, enters the room and shakes hands
with the general.

DOCTOR
General, this is Doctor Bloodory.  He'll be making the trip with you.

BLOODORY
It's an honor to meet you, General.  I'm sure I couldn't be in safer hands.

GENERAL
The chrome companies are exacting a high prince indeed.  Politics will be the
ruin of us all.

BLOODORY
Careful.  If we could rid ourselves of the politicians, generals would no
longer be necessary.

DOCTOR
We should be ready by zero three hundred.

The doctors exit, leaving the general alone to watch the huge machine extract
another brain.

62.  SPACEPORT - OBSERVATION DECK - AQUILAE

Governor Hoedaack, General Vader walk down a boarding ramp to an observation
deck overlooking the conquered city of Gordon.  They are followed by a number
of aides and officers from the Imperial fleet.  Below them air tanks and other
military equipment and supplies are being unloaded.

VADER
Not much of a planet.

HOEDAACK
Darth, you've done well.  Do you think you will have the Royal Family by
nightfall?

VADER
An advance expedition is already on its way to their underground hideaway.
They should reach it by nightfall... but only if this Count Sandage can be
trusted.

HOEDAACK
A man hungry for power can always be trusted... to betray those in power.  I'm
sure his information is correct.

63.  HIDDEN FORTRESS CANYON

The huge rock face of the canyon opens, and two shabby agricultural
landspeeders are pushed into the late afternoon sun.  Artwo and Threepio stand
on the far side of the canyon with their guards, watching in amazement.  The
general and Captain Starkiller walk behind the men pushing the landspeeders.

GENERAL
We'll take them with us.  They know more about that fortress than any ten men.

They will be very useful.

STARKILLER
Can they be trusted?

GENERAL
Loyalty can't be programmed.  They can be trusted never to harm a living
creature, and to always give accurate information...as they know it, to anyone
who asks.  You just have to remember not to tell them anything that you don't
want to fall into the wrong hands.

The general approaches the two robots.  Artwo shyly moves around his taller
companion.

GENERAL
Greetings.  I'm Luke:  Agricultural Engineering.  We're going to be travelling
together.  You're going with us to help set up a hortastation on Banth.

Threepio shakes hands with the general.

THREEPIO
I'm Seethreepio:  Human Cyborg relations.  Your kindness is greatly
appreciated.

Threepio and the general both look down at Artwo.  Threepio gives the smaller
android a little kick.

ARTWO
Artwo Detwo:  Fusion Repair.

GENERAL (to Starkiller)
Load them into one of the speeders.

Captain Whitsun, walking with a slight limp, emerges from the underground
fortress with the Royal Family.  A small group of guards and aides are lined
up, standing at attention.  The two young princes, Biggs and Windy, hug and
kiss their mother good-bye, then jump into the back of the larger four-man
speeder.  The princess bows before her mother, then embraces her.  Tears roll
down her cheeks.  Her mother wipes them away.

QUEEN
You must learn strength.

The princess turns and moves to the larger speeder where she is helped aboard
by Captain Starkiller.

PRINCESS (fuming)
I don't need your help, thank you.

She gives the general an angry look.

GENERAL
I'm afraid he's necessary.

A commotion erupts at the mouth of the underground fortress.  Count Sandage,
several senators and ten to twelve troopers rush into the canyon and block the
speeders.

SANDAGE
Where are you going?  What is this?

In one quick movement the general moves between Sandage and the queen.
Whitsun and Starkiller assume defensive positions in front of the princess and
her brothers.

QUEEN
Leia and the boys are being taken to safety.  It is my wish.

SANDAGE
The Empire has assured their safety.  They must stay.

QUEEN
It is not my wish....

SANDAGE
General, you've gone too far this time.  (to the troops) Arrest him.

Five troops start to move on the general, as Sandage draws his laserpistol.
Before anyone can complete his action, the general ignites his lasersword and
cuts the senator in two.  He drops to the ground in a heap, and the
approaching troops stop in their tracks.

QUEEN
Stop this!

The general, Starkiller, and Whitsun replace their swords, and bow low to the
queen.  All of the troops, senators, and aides do the same.  The formalness of
the occasion is broken when the queen embraces the general.  She then turns
and embraces each of the captains.  They are both flustered, and somewhat
embarrassed.

QUEEN
May the force of others be with you.

The general and his captains head for the speeders, while the queen and all
the others return to the underground fortress.

64.  DESERT BLUFF - AQUILAE

The two speeders edge their way onto a bluff overlooking the hidden fortress
canyon.  They stop for one last reflective moment.  Forced to leave their
closest friends and relatives, the group is deeply moved.  The two robots, for
the most part, are puzzled.  Suddenly, there is a huge atomic flash, followed
by a loud rumble, and the entire canyon collapses into a large crater.  The
group quietly watches the dust settle.  The hidden fortress and all its
inhabitants have been destroyed.  The general watches the princess, who
appears to take it well.

GENERAL
It was the only way we could be safe from treachery.

65.  DUNE SEA - AQUILAE

The two sleek landspeeders glide effortlessly through the vast hills and
valleys of the dune sea.  At the base of the towering dune ridge, the four-man
speeder stops.  The smaller speeder, with Starkiller and the two robots, makes
its way to the top of the ridge.  Captain Starkiller stops the speeder just
short of the top of the ridge.  He gets out and continues the rest of the way
on foot.  The young captain peeks over the dune ridge into the canyon below.
Muted sounds and large dust clouds rise from the canyon floor.  Starkiller
immediately ducks back behind the ridge with an amazed look on his face.  He
quickly returns to the speeder, and picks up the intercom.

STARKILLER
Sir, you'd better take a look at this.  But come easy.

The four-man speeder starts with a crack, and slowly moves up the side of the
imposing dune.  It stops next to the smaller speeder.  The general and Whitsun
get out and make their way to the top of the ridge, where they join
Starkiller.  Far in the distance, crossing the endless dune sea, is the
Imperial invasion army.  It is immense.  A convoy of giant tanks, troop
carriers, and supply ships stretch from horizon to horizon.  Cavalry, mounted
on giant dune birds, ride the line from one end of the convoy to the other.
Hundreds of troops ride one-man jet-sticks in precision formation.  Their
lances form a giant pin-cushion.  It is an awesome sight.

GENERAL SKYWALKER
They're heading toward the fortress.

WHITSUN
What will they do when they find it destroyed?

GENERAL
They won't stop looking for us...They're coming from the spaceport at
Anchorhead, which means they control everything between here and the spaceport
at Gordon.

STARKILLER
Can we go around them?

GENERAL
No.  We'll have to wait for them to pass.  Starkiller, see if you can monitor
any of their communications on the com-link in the big speeder.

Starkiller returns to the speeder.  He collapses in the large speeder next to
the princess, and flips on the com-link radio, moving back and forth across
the dial.

PRINCESS
Must you do that?

Starkiller smiles rather sarcastically.

STARKILLER
Orders...The invasion force has cut us off.  We'll probably be here for some
time.  You ought to stretch a bit.

PRINCESS
Is that a command, General?  Maybe I feel like watching after my brothers.

Starkiller looks back at the two sleeping boys.

STARKILLER
They're not going anywhere.  They're asleep.

PRINCESS
I want to stay with them.

STARKILLER
What's the matter?  You afraid I might eat them?

66.  LIBRARY - PALACE OF LITE - AQUILAE

The king's old library has been converted into an office for General Vader.
He is sitting behind his desk as Prince Valorum, the black knight of Sith,
enters and salutes.  The black knight is dressed in the fascist black and
chrome uniform of the legendary Sith One Hundred.  The general returns his
salute.

VADER
Welcome, Prince Valorum.  Your exploits are legendary.  I have long waited to
meet a Knight of the Sith.  If there is any way I can assist you, my entire
command is at your bidding.

VALORUM
I want a tie-in to your computer network, a control center, and communication
access.

VADER
Right away!  I'll also transfer all information we have on the general.  His
command post was self-destroyed, but we believe he is still alive.... Do you
really believe he's a Jedi?

VALORUM
If he was not a Jedi, I wouldn't be here.

67.  WASTELAND - AQUILAE

The speeders make their way across the grey desert.  It is dawn.  The twin
suns have yet to rise over the distant hills.  The speeders are coated with
dust and grime, indicating that they have travelled far.  The two captains
drive through the night as everyone else sleeps.  Starkiller calls Whitsun on
the intercom.

STARKILLER
How are your fuel packs?  I'm reading minus four.

WHITSUN
I'm too low to transfer any.

The general, who appeared to be asleep, opens his eyes, and takes the
microphone from Whitsun.

GENERAL
There is a fuel station fourteen degrees by two meters.  The occupation force
should have control of it by now, so hide your weapons...but keep them within
reach.

68.  FUEL STATION - AQUILAE

A series of low concrete structures rise out of the desert.  The speeders stop
in front of an old weather-beaten block house.  The rusted hulk of a
landspeeder lies half-buried to one side of the building.  Starkiller and
Whitsun jump out of the speeder and go into the block house.

69.  INTERIOR - FUEL STATION - AQUILAE

The two young captains, dressed as farmers, enter the dingy little fuel
station.  It is quiet.  A few power packs line the walls and a dismantled
speeder rests in the repair bay.  There is a sharp dripping sound coming from
the speeder.  It appears that no-one is there.

STARKILLER
Greetings! ... Who's in charge here?

They look around the deserted station, but find no attendant.  An eerie quiet
pervades the building.

WHITSUN
I don't get it...

STARKILLER
You don't have to.  It's abandoned.

Whitsun opens a door leading to a storage area, and stops short.

WHITSUN
Not quite abandoned...

Starkiller moves to the doorway and sees the attendant, his wife, and small
daughter hanging upside down, tortured to death.  Whitsun cuts them down.

WHITSUN
They shouldn't have resisted.

Starkiller grabs two power packs from the shelf.

STARKILLER
Help me with these power packs.  We'd better move out of here.

Whitsun covers the family with an old work tarp.  He bows to the dead, then
reluctantly grabs a couple of power packs and they start for the door.
Whitsun stops for a moment.

WHITSUN
Hear that?  Someone's here.  (yelling)  We're friends.  Show yourself.

Silence.  Whitsun shrugs his shoulders and they start out the door, only to
run straight into a burly stormtrooper.

STORMTROOPER
Get out of here!

70.  FUEL STATION - AQUILAE

Whitsun and Starkiller are pulled out of the doorway and shoved into the
center of a group of fifteen or twenty Imperial stormtroopers who have
surrounded the two speeders.  Several troops have pulled General Skywalker out
of the speeder.  He acts senile, like a man twice his age.

GENERAL SKYWALKER
I'm all right.  I can still move about by myself.

A rough looking sergeant grabs Whitsun.

SERGEANT
What are you doing here?

WHITSUN
We're out of power, sir.

SERGEANT
Let me see  your travel passes!

WHITSUN
I have it here, somewhere.  We've been relocated...to a Bantha hortastation,
by Imperial order...

Whitsun fumbles to retrieve something from his pocket, and eventually pulls
out a small, round disc.  The sergeant puts the disc in a small portable
reader.  Various computer readouts are displayed on the monitor.  Starkiller
starts to put a power pack into one of the speeders.

SERGEANT
What are you doing there?  All power has been restricted.

GENERAL SKYWALKER
We've run out.  We must have power, or be forced to stay here....and become
your responsibilities.

The sergeant thinks about this for a moment, as the old, wise general watches
him.  Tension fills the air.  Starkiller shuffles around to a position where
he can reach his weapon.  A trooper hands the sergeant a message.

SERGEANT (to Whitsun)
Take only two of those power packs, and then move out quickly.

The sergeant hurries to a military craft, where he takes a call on an
intercom.  General Skywalker and his two young captains load the remaining
power packs into the speeder, and roar away from the station.

71.  WASTELAND - AQUILAE

The speeders race along through the rocky desert wasteland.  The general
speaks into the intercom to Starkiller.

GENERAL
Keep a close watch.  If that sergeant runs an analysis on those passes, we
might be seeing him again...We should be safely inside Gordon within the day.

Everyone is in good spirits.  The princess and her young brothers sing an
Aquilaean melody, which is transmitted to Starkiller in the smaller speeder.
The general takes little Windy, and lets him sit on his lap in the forward
compartment of the speeder.  Artwo flexes Threepio's arm back and forth,
attempting to discover the cause of a loud squeak.

ARTWO
Z-2 doesn't seem to help at all.

THREEPIO
It's all this filth and dust.  This environment is murderous.

Starkiller notices a small speck on the horizon.

STARKILLER (into intercom)
Object approaching, bearing three point two.

The general looks through an electrotelescope mounted in the speeder.  He
spots a distant row of troopers riding strange dune birds.

GENERAL (to Starkiller)
It's a patrol.  It could mean trouble.  We'd better split up.  You stay on a
direct course.  We'll meet you at the western edge of ravine 23-64.  Stay in
contact.

The larger speeder makes a sharp left turn, speeding off across a deep ravine.

Starkiller can begin to distinguish the approaching troopers.

STARKILLER
It looks like there's ten of them.  They're heading right for me.... Wait a
second.  They've disappeared!  I've lost them.

GENERAL
Continue on.

73.  WASTELAND LAKEBED - AQUILAE

Whitsun deftly maneuvers the bulky speeder through a narrow, boulder strewn
ravine.  They eventually come out on a dry lake bed, where they stop.
Standing not more than a hundred feet away, apparantly waiting for the
speeder, are five Imperial troops on their dune birds.

GENERAL
We've found them, five of them, anyway...Watch yourself.

The troops slowly ride their huge birds over to the speeder, and dismount.
The officer in charge is a vicious looking warrior, with a large scar across
his face.

OFFICER
Let me see your passes.

Whitsun hands him the small pass disc, and he places it in his reader.  He
studies the computer readout for a few moments, and then returns the disc to
Whitsun.

OFFICER
Have you seen any other transports in this area?

GENERAL SKYWALKER
We saw two heading south.  Goin' toward Ansel, look like to me.

OFFICER
All right.  Be on your way.

The officer mounts his dune bird, and the patrol moves away.  Whitsun winks at
the princess, and smiles at the general, as the speeder starts off across the
dry lake.  The general fiddles with the intercom.

GENERAL
S-2, are you clear?

STARKILLER
I have five troopers approaching.  Any problems on your end?

GENERAL
We came through all right.  You shouldn't have any trouble, but stay alert.

STARKILLER
Best wishes....Here they come.

Everyone rides along in silence, a little worried about Starkiller, especially
the princess.

PRINCESS
..Do you think he'll be all right?

GENERAL
He can take care of himself.

Biggs is looking out the back window of the speeder.

BIGGS
Hey look!  They're coming back.

Everyone looks to see the patrol quickly gaining on them.

GENERAL
Stop!  They're faster.  Get your weapon.

The speeder screeches to a halt in a cloud of dust.  The general and his
captain jump from the transport with laserpistols drawn.  The patrol bears
down on them, swords drawn, at full charge.  Both the general and Whitsun
fire.  Two of the troopers and their Dune birds explode in a cloud of smoke.
The remaining three troopers are upon the duo in a matter of seconds.  The
general ignites his lasersword and cuts down two of the troops as they pass.
The last turns his bird around before reaching the speeder, and hightails it
back toward the ravine.  The general jumps onto one of the riderless dune
birds and takes off in pursuit.  Whitsun checks the dead troopers.

73.  WASTELAND RAVINE - AQUILAE

The general rides at breakneck speed after the fleeing trooper.  His
lasersword is raised high over his head, ready to deal a death blow.  The
lumbering birds race through the winding ravine.

74.  WASTELAND RAVINE - AQUILAE

The intercom warning buzzer begins to scream.  Whitsun rushes for it, but the
princess gets there first.

PRINCESS
Are you all right?

STARKILLER
Two riders heading your way.  I got three, but two got away.  Watch
yourselves!

75.  WASTELAND RAVINE - AQUILAE

The general is riding neck and neck with the trooper.  He swiftly brings his
sword down and the trooper drops from his saddle.  The momentum of his charge
carries the general around a bend in the ravine, and right in the path of two
more troops charging down on him.  The two troopers are taken by surprise.
They stop their birds, and so does the general.  They stand there, about fifty
yards apart, sizing up each other.  Suddenly, the two troopers start for the
Jedi at full speed.  The general raises his sword, and starts for them.  The
troopers are no match for the general, who kills them both before they are
even able to swing their swords.

76.  WASTELAND LAKEBED - AQUILAE

Starkiller stops near the larger landspeeder and gets out.  He is wounded.
Blood streams from his left arm.  Whitsun rushes to help him.  The princess
shows a great deal of concern.

WHITSUN
It looks worse than it is.  You'll be all right.

Whitsun motions to the princess, who looks a little relieved.

WHITSUN
Bring me the med aid pack.

PRINCESS
It he was clumsy enough to get hurt, maybe we ought to let him bleed to death.

She hands Whitsun the kit, as the general rides up and dismounts.  He moves to
Starkiller.

GENERAL
You missed two.

STARKILLER
I know, I couldn't...

GENERAL
Don't let it happen again.  We'd better move out.  They might have reported
in.

77.  CONTROL ROOM - PALACE OF LITE - AQUILAE

The dark and sinister Valorum moves several markers on a large map readout to
form a line from the destroyed underground fortress to the spaceport at
Gordon.  An aide enters with General Vader.

AIDE
The patrol was lost, Sir.  All ten of them.

VALORUM
It's to be expected.

VADER
Have you found them?

VALORUM
They're heading for the spaceport at Gordon.  I'm going there.  Have all
security doubled.  Make it an alert.

78.  THE OUTSKIRTS OF GORDON - AQUILAE

The speeders stop on a bluff overlooking a small cantina on the outskirts of
Gordon.  The spaceport can be seen in the distance.  The general and Captain
Whitsun walk over to the smaller speeder.  Starkiller helps the two androids
out of their cramped quarters.

THREEPIO
Your kindness is greatly appreciated.

STARKILLER (to general)
I'm fit enough to...

The general gives him a hard look and he shuts up.  Whitsun and the general
climb into the speeder.

GENERAL
We'll make contact at zero four hundred.  If we're not back by fifty-five
forty, get worried.

The speeder starts off toward the cantina.

79.  SPACEPORT CANTINA - AQUILAE

The speeder pulls up in front of the low, blockhouse style cantina.  Various
strange forms of transport are parked outside the bar.

GENERAL
Take care here.  If there is any trouble, get back to the others.

The general and Whitsun enter the shabby cantina.  The murky little den is
filled with a startling array of weird and exotic alien creatures, laughing at
the bar.  At first, the sight is horrifying.  One-eyed, thousand-eyed, slimy,
furry, scaling arms, tentacles, and claws huddle over drinks.  The general
looks over the patrons, but does not see the contact, Han Solo.  A large
multiple eyed creature shoves the general.

CREATURE
Assha dughi wouldugga?

The general tries to ignore the creature, and turns back to his drink.  A
short, grubby looking human, and an even smaller rodent-like creature join the
first creature.

HUMAN
He doesn't like you.

GENERAL
I understood him.

HUMAN
I don't like you either.

GENERAL
I'm sorry.

The big creature is getting agitated, and yells at the general.

HUMAN
Don't insult us.  You just watch yourself.  We're wanted men.  I have the
death sentence on twelve Systems.

GENERAL
I'll be careful then.

HUMAN
You'll be dead.

The short rodent yells something, and everything at the bar moves away.  The
general assumes a defensive position.  His three adversaries ready their
weapons.

GENERAL
You insist on a fight then.

HUMAN
Just try and kill us.

GENERAL
It will hurt a little.

HUMAN
We aren't cowards.

GENERAL
Then it can't be helped.

The general's lasersword sparks to life.  An arm lies on the floor.  The
rodent is cut in two, and the large, multiple-eyed creature lies doubled, cut
from chin to groin.  The general, with quiet dignity, replaces his sword in
its sheath.  The entire fight has lasted only a matter of seconds.  A figure
stands in the doorway watching the general.  As soon as the general notices
him, he leaves.  The cantina goes back to normal, as if nothing had happened,
although the general is given a respectable amount of room at the bar.  The
Jedi finishes his drink, and then leaves.  Captain Whitsun follows.

80.  SPACEPORT ALLEYWAY - GORDON - AQUILAE

General Skywalker embraces Han Solo, the underground contact.  Han is a huge,
green skinned monster with no nose and large gills.

HAN
You old stardog.  Took a war to get you out here...

Whitsun arrives with Starkiller, the princess and her brothers, and the two
puzzled androids.

GENERAL
It's been too long.  We've been through much together.  It will be good to
have you out of retirement and back at my side.  How is Starkiller?  (putting
his arm around the young Captain Starkiller)  This is his son.

HAN
You're all the old boy will talk about.  He's still holding up.  Come, let's
get off the street.

The group enters a small doorway at the far end of the alleyway.  On the main
street, within view of the doorway, giant Imperial air tanks and other
military hardware rumble through the city.  Starving refugees sit in the
gutters watching the immense display of force with a mixture of awe and
terror.  The princess stops for a moment, and stares at her people, watching
the might of the Empire.  The general escorts her through the doorway with the
others.

81.  SLUM DWELLING - LIVING AREA - AQUILAE

The seedy dwelling is dark and dingy.  The group is greeted by three
underground leaders, and the old Jedi, Kane Starkiller.  Captain Starkiller
embraces his father as the underground leaders bow before the princess.

82.  SLUM DWELLING - DINING AREA - AQUILAE

The princess walks through the dining area followed by Whitsun and Starkiller,
who carry the two sleeping princes.  The general sits at a large table
finishing dinner with Han, Kane and the three underground leaders.  Whitsun
returns from the bedroom.

GENERAL (to Whitsun)
Captain, why don't you take the androids into the other room for a game of
chess? ... I'm sure they'd enjoy it.

THREEPIO
A wonderful idea.  Your kindness is greatly appreciated.

Whitsun escorts the two robots into the next room.  Datos, a thin, wizened old
man, seems greatly relieved.

DATOS
You're taking a great risk travelling with them.  This whole operation sounds
bad to me.  I don't trust the chrome companies.  Time is growing short.  The
Empire's attempts at control have already caused a great deal of suffering to
our people.

Occo, a brash young rebel, about the same age as Captain Starkiller, slams his
fist on the table.

OCCO
It must happen now!  We are ready!  Each day the Imperial S.B.T. finds and
destroys a few more in the organization.  We cannot wait any longer.

GENERAL
Any uprising without a coordinated attack on the death star is out of the
question.

HAN
He's right.  As long as it's operational, any action down here would be
meaningless.  We must proceed as planned.  Are the arrangements secure?

Quist, the third member of the underground, sparks to life, and places several
discs and badges on the table.

QUIST
All passenger transport has been suspended, so we've arranged for you to
travel as the crew of a Baltarian freighter.  The boys will have to be placed
in suspended animation and hidden in shielded micro-packs.  It's the only way
we will be able to get them past the scanners.

DATOS
Were you able to acquire the necessary power packs?

QUIST
It's become a serious problem.  All power supplies have been restricted.  S-4
units are impossible to come by.

HAN
I know an agent who might be able to acquire them for us.  I'll check with
him.  It will be risky, but we've no other choice.

83.  SPACEPORT OBSERVATION DECK - AQUILAE

The dark figure of Valorum stands overlooking a group of Aquilaean partisans
who are being tortured in the plaza below.  Two Imperial officers are
finishing a report to the black knight.  They salute smartly, then leave the
observation balcony, passing Kuro, one of General Vader's aides, who
approaches Valorum, and bows low before him.  Kuro and the black knight carry
on an animated conversation; it is inaudible over the screams of the tortured
partisans.

84.  SLUM DWELLING - ALLEYWAY - AQUILAE

Residents glance fearfully from their windows as six Imperial stormtroopers
make their way through the crowded slum alleyway.  Han Solo and Captain
Starkiller move cautiously past the Imperial patrol, and disappear into the
shabby hideout of the partisan underground.

85.  SLUM DWELLING - MAIN AREA - AQUILAE

The two men enter the dingy main room of the slum dwelling, and are
immediately attacked by Biggs, wielding a toy sword.  Starkiller good-
naturedly fends off the young prince, as Han in a more serious mood, goes into
the other room.  Artwo and Threepio are helping Windy put together a block-
like puzzle.  Princess Leia comes in to see what all the commotion is about,
just as the young captain grabs Biggs by the foot and holds him upside-down.
Starkiller and Biggs are laughing uproariously.  Leia gives the captain a
stern, disapproving look, then returns to the other room.

86.  SLUM DWELLING - DINING AREA - AQUILAE

General Skywalker, Captain Whitsun, and Datos are in the process of assembling
two micro-packs on the kitchen table.  Han pulls a small silver powerpack from
his pocket, and places it on the table.  The old Jedi, Kane Starkiller,
reaches over with his one good arm and takes it.  He inspects it carefully.
Princess Leia sits quietly behind the general.

HAN
We could only get one unit.  The Empire's methods are proving to be very
effective.

Kane places the power-pack back on the table.  The pain from those simple
movements shows on his face.

KANE
This will work fine.

HAN
One of the boys will have to stay.

DATOS
We can't hide him for very long....The risk is too great!  Whichever boy
doesn't go must be destroyed.

The princess is alarmed, and looks to the general for support.  He gives her
an understanding look.

GENERAL
Not while they're in my charge.  Find another way to get him through.

DATOS
There's no other way.  We've analyzed every possible alternative.  You can't
jeopardize the enitre...

Captain Starkiller enters the room.

HAN
We have no time for discussion.  The freighters leave at zero three hundred.
We must get started.

Through a break in the door, Whitsun watches Artwo and Threepio play with the
two young princes.

WHITSUN
What about Artwo?  Could we lobotomize him, and use his energy pack?

GENERAL
They're not compatible.  We'd have to completely change the system...

HAN
It could work.

DATOS
There isn't enough time.  You can't do it...

KANE
You won't have to.  My power unit has more than half life.... Use it.

The withered Jedi opens his tunic revealing a metallic chest covered with
electrodes.  With his one good arm, he grabs his chest and rips loose and
miniature power unit similar to the one on the table.  Everyone is taken by
surprise.  The general and the young Starkiller both rush to the side of the
dying Jedi.  The old man turns to his son.

KANE
Trust my judgment, Son.  Serve your new teacher well.

The Jedi's breathing becomes more difficult as he turns to the general.

KANE (con't)
An honorable death, my friend.  May the force of others be with you....

Kane Starkiller passes on to the other world.  Everyone is stunned.  The
general breaks the moment of silence.

GENERAL
May he be welcomed as a man above men.  Take him downstairs.

Starkiller takes his father in his arms and is followed out of the room by Han
and Datos.

GENERAL
Prepare the boys!  We have little time.

Princess Leia and Captain Whitsun rush out of the room, as the general places
the power units in the micro-packs.

87.  SLUM DWELLING - MAIN AREA - AQUILAE

Biggs and Windy are not happy about being dragged away from their puzzle.
Whitsun takes the robots into the sleep area.

LEIA
Now straighten up, Biggs.  Remember, father expects you to follow his ways.
We are going on a trip.  There will be great danger.  You must go to sleep.
When you wake, you will be in a strange land, so don't be alarmed.

BIGGS
Are you going to sleep too?

LEIA
I will be looking after you.  Now be good boys and stand still.  Lift your
sleeve.

Windy lifts his sleeze and Leia injects him with a sleep serum.  Whitsun
enters just as the little prince collapses into a deep sleep.  Quick as
lightning, he catches the boy before he can hit the floor.  The princess
injects her other brother, and he collapses into her arms.

88.  SLUM DWELLING - DINING AREA - AQUILAE

The limp bodies of the two young princes are carried in by Leia and Captain
Whitsun.  They are carefully squeezed into the hollowed out micro-cases.  Leia
pensively watches as the general expertly attaches electrodes to her brother's
skull.  Han and Datos return from the burial of Kane.  The general looks up
from his operation.

HAN
He is at rest.  The Empire will never find him.  Are the systems working all
right?

GENERAL
Full power...Is everything ready?

Datos nods yes, as the general closes the case holding Biggs.  The strain of
watching her brothers placed in suspended animation is too great for Leia, and
she retreats into the main room.

89.  SLUM DWELLING - MAIN ROOM - AQUILAE

Captain Starkiller stands brooding near a window overlooking the crowded
alleyway.  He does not acknowledge Leia's entrance.  She walks over to the
window, and stands next to the young captain.  They are very close, but do not
touch.

LEIA
I'm sorry.

He does not respond.  She is moved by his sorrow, and starts to touch the side
of his face, but can't bring herself to do it.  Her royal training is too
strong to let her show her true affection for Starkiller.  She breaks down and
runs from the room.  The young Jedi continues his meditation.

90.  SPACEPORT AT GORDON - SECURITY RAMP - AQUILAE

The spaceport is very crowded.  People rush about in a panicked rush as
loudspeakers blurt out indiscernible announcements.  The Empire is in the
process of changing the boarding procedures and the result is chaos.  Many
flights are delayed, and people are running to and fro, switching boarding
ramps.  Han guides the rebel group, dressed as a Baltarian crew, through the
crowded terminal.  Whitsun and Starkiller carry the large micro-packs strapped
to their backs.  The robots follow a few paces behind.

HAN
They're changing the boarding procedures.  I don't like it.

They are swept into a boarding gate and finally reach a security ramp scan
station.  There are a great number of troops and guards standing around the
security area.  An officer demands to see their passes and orders.  The
tension builds as the officer confers with an aide about the passes.  The aide
speaks quietly into a phone.

OFFICER
Where are your component receipts?

Starkiller and Whitsun hand the officer two additional discs which are placed
in the computer.  A few moments later, the readout appears, and the group is
motioned through the electron scanners.  On the other side of the scanner, new
computer discs are issued to the group.  Everyone seems slightly relieved as
they walk through several hallways leading to where the freighter is docked.
Starkiller moves next to the general.

STARKILLER
I don't like the feel of this.

GENERAL
Your senses are strong.  It's a very small disruption.

STARKILLER
It's a Knight of the Sith.

GENERAL
Possibly.  Stay alert...Warn the others.

The group walks through the docking links and into the Baltarian spacecraft.
Several Imperial guards pass them, and everyone is ready for the suspected
trap, but nothing happens..

91.  INTERIOR - BALTARIAN FREIGHTER - AQUILAE

The group stops in a narrow electronics passageway near the bridge of the
ship.  Starkiller and Whitsun unstrap the micro-packs containing the two young
princes, and check the voltage packs.

WHITSUN
Little Biggs is losing power faster than normal.  I'd better check it out.

GENERAL
Wait until the situation is secure.  Stay here, and keep on your guard....Han!

The two young captains grow suspicious of several workmen gathering around the
main exit hatch.  Han and the general enter the bridge area.  Several crewmen
sit at elaborate controls and computer stations.

GENERAL
Where is your captain?

One of the crewmen directs him to a small chamber above the bridge.
Starkiller and Whitsun strap on their micropacks as more workmen converge at
the main hatch and begin to close it.  The two robots, Artwo and Threepio are
confused about what is going on, and wear their gear in anticipation of
moving.

92.  PILOT CHAMBER - BALTARIAN FREIGHTER - AQUILAE

Han and the general enter the small pilot's chamber and greet the captain,
whose face is hidden in the shadows of a computer bank.

CAPTAIN
Welcome, gentlemen.  You must have had a difficult journey.  We'll be
departing shortly....

[p. 77 is all screwed up.  I attempt to interpret here:]

[Four Imperial tr]oopers silently enter the room behind the two [??] Their
laserswords are drawn.

CAPTAIN (con't)
[?] I have been authorized to accept payment [?] the chrome company
cooperation.  I [?] you've brought it with you.

[?] moves out of the shadows, and is revealed to [be Valorum, F]irst Knight of
the Sith.  Instantly, both Han and [the general] understand the situation.
They turn, drawing their [laserswords? ?] the move, and cut down the four
Imperial troopers.  [?] chamber instantly seals shut.  Valorum hasn't [?] and
remains unusually calm.  The two Jedi turn [?]

VALORUM
[?] over, gentlemen.  The chamber is sealed.  [?] force me to release the Jai
gas...

[?] and the black knight turns to an intercom.

INTERCOM
[?]ion secure.  Prisoners taken to hold "B,"... [?] casualties.... gas was
necessary.

[?]eral relax and drop their weapons.  The door [?] behind them and six guards
enter wearing face-[?]nd the two Jedi with chrome microcuffs.  A [?] creeps
across Valorum's face.  General [?] unimpressed with the knightly trap.

VALORUM
[?] it's ended.  (to guard)  Take them [?] "G."  I don't want them with the
others.  [?] for departure.

[?esc]ort Han and the general out of the chamber [?] hallways.

[?93.  INTERIOR - BALTA]RIAN FREIGHTERS - AQUILAE

[?]ch Han and the general into the hold of the [?] near the main exit where
Artwo and Threepio [?] looking lost.  Threepio sees the general pass [?]ay.

THREEPIO
[?]ere he is.  Come on.

[end of p. 77]

The robots waddle off after the Jedi prisoners.  As the small procession
passes detention cell B where the princess and the others are being held, Han
and the general let out a horrifying Jedi scream, and leap to the corridor
ceiling, thrusting their bound wrists into the lighting fixtures.  They land
on top of the troops, instantly breaking the necks of four guards, with
expertly placed Jedi blows.  The eight surviving guards are momentarily
dumbfounded.  Han and the general grab laserswords from their victims, and
swiftly cut down the remaining troops.  Han grabs a small card from one of the
dead guards, and starts for detention cell B.

GENERAL
Watch it!  Those are cutters.

The general grabs one of the dead troopers and tosses him against the cell
door.  Red rays engulf the body, and holds it there.  Han then places the card
in a slot, and the door silently slides open.  Starkiller and Whitsun leap for
the dead guard, then notice the death ray surrounding him.  General Skywalker
grabs another body and throws it into the doorway.

GENERAL
Pass between them!

Starkiller squeezes between the slain guards, and is untouched by the rays.
Whitsun and the princess quickly follow, picking up weapons as they leave.

STARKILLER
They've taken the cases.

GENERAL
Are they aware of the boys?

WHITSUN
I don't think so.

GENERAL
Find them!  Use your seeker.  We'll meet you at the main hatch.  Watch
yourselves.  If an alarm is given, they'll gas the entire ship.

WHITSUN
Yes, Sir.

Whitsun and Starkiller each take a small humming device from their utility
belts and head down a narrow hallway.  The general, Han and the princess
continue toward the main hatch.  Artwo and Threepio have been completely
confused by the turn of events.  They eventually follow the general toward the
exit hatch.

94.  ELECTROCLOSET HALLWAY - BALTARIAN FREIGHTER - AQUILAE

The two young captains reach a storage area of the huge spacecraft.  They
watch their seekers as they move along a row of electroclosets.  They quietly
sneak past a group of workmen assembling a large gyro-housing.  A second row
of micro-packs is searched to no avail.

WHITSUN
If they were discovered, they would have been sent to a medical station.

STARKILLER
There are more storage areas on the far side.

95.  MAIN HATCH AREA - BALTARIAN FREIGHTER - AQUILAE

Han and the general reach the main hatch, closely followed by Leia and the two
robots.  Several lights over the hatch flash on and off.  The general cuts a
camera off the wall with his lasersword.

HAN
They're going to take off....It's too late.

GENERAL
Threepio!  Come over here.

The lanky chrome man approaches the general, who is studying a complex
computer control panel next to the hatch.

THREEPIO
Yes Sir.  May I be of service?

GENERAL
Get this hatch open.  Counterlock the departure pattern.

The robot immediately starts pushing buttons on the panel.

96.  ELECTROCLOSET HALLWAY - BALTARIAN FREIGHTER - AQUILAE

Starkiller and Whitsun reach a second series of electroclosets.  A signal
appears on the seekers, and Starkiller cuts down the door of one of the small
cabinets.  Whitsun stands guard.  Approaching troops are heard in the
distance.  Starkiller quickly rummages through the electropacks until he spots
the familiar cases containing the two boys.

WHITSUN
Troops!

Starkiller straps on one of the back packs, and hands the other to Whitsun, as
they duck into a narrow passageway.  Four troops march through a nearby
hallway.  After they have passed, the young captain checks to make sure the
way is clear, then runs down a hallway toward the main hatch.

97.  BRIDGE - BALTARIAN FREIGHTER - AQUILAE

As the crew makes the final preparations for the blast off, the main hatch
light blinks on.  One of the pilots notices the light and begins to check it
out.

PILOT (into intercom)
Is the main hatch secure?

98.  MAIN HATCH - BALTARIAN FREIGHTER - AQUILAE

The intercom sparks to life, and the general answers it.

GENERAL
Everything looks secure, but give me a minute to check it out.

PILOT
All right... Stand by.

The general gives a wink to Han, as Threepio continues his attempt to override
the hatch computer.

99.  HALLWAYS - BALTARIAN FREIGHTER - AQUILAE

Starkiller and Whitsun cautiously move down a long hallway, ever watchful of
Imperial troops.  They reach an intersection, carefully check in all
directions, then rush down a main hallway.  They are about half way down the
hallway, when a squad of Imperial guards appears at the end of the hallway,
facing them.  The troops start toward the two captains with lowered
laserrifles.

STARKILLER
Here's where it gets tricky.

Starkiller, then Whitsun, quickly and smoothly draw their laserpistols and
fire at the troops.  A giant explosion destroys the far end of the hallway.  A
few laserbolts are returned, but streak harmlessly overhead, and explode out
of range.  The exchange of gunfire lasts only a few moments.  When the smoke
clears, the troops have been destroyed.

100.  MAIN HATCH - BALTARIAN FREIGHTER - AQUILAE

The main hatch slowly begins to slide open, when the rumbling explosion of
laserfire echoes through the hallways.  Han looks to the general, and they
both instantly realize what has happened.  Han draws his weapons.  The hatch
is now fully open.  Everyone stands silently, watching for the two captains.
Alarms start screaming throughout the ship, and the giant hatch slowly begins
to close.

GENERAL
Come on.  We can't wait.

The group reluctantly exits the spacecraft, giving one last look back to their
lost friends.  The hatch continues to close slowly as the alarm sirens wail.
Suddenly, Starkiller and Whitsun round a corner and head for the ever-closing
hatch; battling several Imperial stormtroopers as they go.  Han and the
general move up to the hatch and give cover fire.  Whitsun slips through the
shrinking opening, and yells to Starkiller to hurry.  Many more troops bear
down on the young Jedi as he squeezes through the very slim opening.  One of
the troops dives after him, but is caught, and crushed by the emergency hatch.

101.  BOARDING RAMPS - GORDON SPACEPORT - AQUILAE

The general leads the group through various corridors.

HAN
Once the alarm sounds, the entire spaceport will shut down.

They stop at a junction.  At the far end of one hallway, several troops guard
a restricted passageway.

GENERAL
That's the military section.

STARKILLER
Fighter craft!

HAN
But it's very heavily guarded.  We can't take it with subtlety.

Before the general can answer, the acute scream of the spaceport alarm
reverberates through the corridors.  The general, followed by his two young
captains, charge toward the heavily guarded military passageway.  Han, with
the princess and two robots, follow a safe distance behind.  A guard sees them
coming, and orders them to stop.  Starkiller and the general fire their
laserpistols at the passageway entrance and the troops disappear in a huge
explosion.

The group jumps over the dead guards and smoking rubble, then runs through a
series of hallways leading to a starship.  They stop just short of an
intersection leading to a boarding ramp.  Starkiller peeks around a corner at
two guards standing in front of the boarding ramp.

STARKILLER
Cutters!  We'll have to draw them out...A blast might alert the crew.

GENERAL
Artwo!  Come here.

The little robot waddles over to the old Jedi.

GENERAL (con't)
Move to that intersection and sound the alarm.

The mechanical dwarf dutifully marches into the intersection and lets out a
high, electronic scream.  The guards shut off the deadly laser "cutters," and
cautiously approach the wailing robot.

GUARD
What is it?  What's wrong?

With incredible speed, both guards are dropped by a few precision blows from
the two young captains.  They immediately drag the unconscious guards into the
starship.

GENERAL
Starkiller!  Whitsun!  Stand guard.  I'll signal at take-off minus
thirty...And reverse that cutter!

102.  INTERIOR - IMPERIAL STARSHIP - AQUILAE

Han and the general, followed by Leia and the robots, enter the Imperial
starship.  They rush through several narrow hallways leading to the bridge.
Two crew members leaving a control station, stumble into the group and are
quickly dispatched by Han.  The princess waits with the robots, as the general
and Han enter the bridge.  The two pilots and navigator are taken by surprise
and promptly are subdued.  Han switches on the intercom and listens.

HAN
How are we going to get them to open the silo cover?

GENERAL
Send Threepio in here.  Dispose of any crewmen left on board.

103.  BOARDING RAMP - SPACEPORT - AQUILAE

Starkiller and Whitsun now wear the uniform of the Imperial guard.  Whitsun
has removed a plate from the "cutter" machinism and is crossing a few wires.
He replaces the "cutter" plate just as a squad of stormtroopers rushes toward
the door.  An officer salutes them.

OFFICER
Have you seen them?

STARKILLER
No, Sir.

OFFICER
They're in this section somewhere.  I'm doubling all the guards.  Stay alert.

Two guards take up positions just outside the "cutter" areas, and the squad
moves on to another starship.  Starkiller gives his partner a philosophical
look.

104.  INTERIOR - IMPERIAL STARSHIP - AQUILAE

The gleaming chrome Threepio sits in the pilot's seat, talking on the intercom
to a controller.  He breaks off his continual drone of take-off instructions
to the controller and turns to the general, shaking his head.

THREEPIO
They won't buy it.  I think they're getting suspicious.

Han enters.

HAN
The crew is taken care of.

GENERAL
Well, they're not going to open the silo cover, so I'm afraid we'll have to
take it with us.

HAN
We're going to sustain considerable damage if we blast off through that cover.

GENERAL
It's a thin shell.  There is no choice.  (to Threepio)  Signal the boys.

105.  BOARDING RAMPS - SPACEPORT - AQUILAE

Warning lights flash and the main hatch to the starfighter slowly begins to
close.  The two Imperial stormtroopers yell at Starkiller and Whitsun.

STORMTROOPER
Watch it!  Don't fire into those cutters!  (to Starkiller)  Shut down the
cutters!

The two captains pretend to be confused, and not understand.  At the last
minute, they leap aboard the starship.  The hatch slides closed, and the
boarding ramp drops away.  Several more guards arrive, and give the troopers a
special card, which turns the small cutter warning lights from red to green.
The guards rush onto the boarding ramp and are wiped out by the reversed
"cutters."

106.  INTERIOR - STARSHIPS - AQUILAE

Everyone straps himself into the lifepods.  Threepio and the general troddle
forward, and the giant ship shudders as it starts to lift off the launch pad.
With tense expressions, everyone braces for the impact of the silo cover.

107.  STARSHIP - SPACEPORT SILO - AQUILAE

The  mighty starship thunders out of the silo, crashing through the cover
plate, sending shrapnel in all directions.  The ship leaps toward the heavens.

108.  BOARDING CAMPS - SPACEPORT - AQUILAE

Imperial flight crews rush to their starships.   Pilots receive their
clearances, and several giant silo covers swing away, revealing deadly hunter-
destroyer spaceships.

109.  INTERIOR - BRIDGE - STARSHIP - SPACE

Han and the general watch as five hunter-destroyers leave the spaceport at
Gordon.

GENERAL
We suffered light damage to a deflector fin.  It will take them quite a while
to catch up with us now.  Tell the boys to get some rest.

110.  AFT SECTION - STARSHIP - SPACE

Han retreats to the aft section of the ship, where the two captains are
checking out the two main lasercannons mounted in large rotating bubble
turrets.

HAN
The old boy says you two should get some rest... You've got some time before
they catch up to us.

Han notices the packs containing the young princes.

HAN (con't)

Better store the boys in a lifepod.  Secure them well.

He heads back toward the bridge, followed by Whitsun.  Starkiller carries the
two micro-packs to a lifepod, and straps them in.  He checks Biggs' energy
supply.  It is low.  Leia approaches him.

LEIA
Couldn't we let them out now?

STARKILLER
It's better this way.  Things are going to get rough...

LEIA
Will we make it?  Is there any hope?  Stay with me.  [something deleted?]... I
love you.

Starkiller is slightly shocked at this outburst.  The princess starts to cry
and clings to him for support.

STARKILLER
No-one is going to die...so stop acting like a child, and start behaving like
a queen.  What is this silly talk of love?  You belong to the people of
Aquilae, and my job is to return you to them, nothing more.  Now straighten up
and get into a lifepod.

She's deeply hurt by his callousness.  She breaks away from him and runs down
a hallway into a lifepod.  He is tired, and angry at the whole incident.

111.  BRIDGE - STARSHIP - SPACE

Threepio guides the starship toward the Ophuchi system.  The general watches
the computer readout estimate the position of the Imperial hunter destroyers.

THREEPIO
Hostile craft will intercept at thirty plus.

GENERAL
What's the nearest star System?

THREEPIO
Yavin.

GENERAL
Set a course... Maybe we can lose them among the Systems.

112.  AFT SECTION - STARSHIP - SPACE

Starkiller rests in one of the lasercannon pod bays.  He is thinking about
Leia.  Slowly a smile creeps across his face.  He makes a decision, jumps up,
and hurries down a hallway.  He taps on the lifepod bulkhead, and Whitsun
opens the door.  Starkiller is surprised.

WHITSUN
What is it?

STARKILLER
Where is Leia?

WHITSUN
She went forward.... What's going on with you two?

STARKILLER
We're in love.  She loves me, and I just realized,... I love her.

WHITSUN
[something whited out] You're asking for trouble... She's a queen... You're a
warrior....Do you know what you're saying?

STARKILLER
I don't care... I've got to talk...

Whitsun just shakes his head, but before Starkiller can finish his sentence,
the ship is rocked by a bombardment of proton torpedoes.  The intercom squawks
to life.

GENERAL (over intercom)
Get to those guns!

Starkiller and Whitsun rush to the lasercannons, and jump into the protective
suits and helmets.

113.  BRIDGE - STARSHIP - SPACE

Han enters the bridge and sits before a fire control center.  The general sits
in a chair, slightly behind and above Threepio, directing the robot pilot.

GENERAL
Turn around!  Let's face them.

Artwo, sitting quietly in a corner, watches as Threepio punches new
information into the computer and the giant starship swings around in a sharp
circle.  Several torpedoes explode near the ship.  The general switches on the
intercom.

GENERAL
Your boys ready?

114.  AFT SECTION - STARSHIP - SPACE

The captains adjust the lasercannon controls in front of them and check in
with the general.

GENERAL
They should be within range in twelve seconds...

Starkiller adjusts his giant laser ack-ack cannon, searching his electronic
tracking screen for the hunter destroyer.  Whitsun is having a problem with
one of the rotating mechanisms on the huge gun.  He curses, climbs out of the
chair, and attempts to fix it.

WHITSUN
My vertical rotating circuits are out...

The princess straps herself into a small lifepod.  [something whited out]
Only the slightest hint of concern or worry shows in her face.  She listens to
her protectors relay instructions as the enemy approaches.

115.  BRIDGE - STARSHIP - SPACE

The starship shudders as the hunter-destroyers open fire.  Han relays the
ship's status to the general, as Threepio struggles to keep up with the
barrage of orders.

HAN
We're losing deflectors three thirty one and ten forty two...

GENERAL (to Threepio)
Cut hard to maridian nine zero six.  Level to three degrees...(into the
intercom)  We're coming under one.  Wait for my signal!

116.  AFT SECTION - STARSHIP - SPACE

The constant flashing of deflected laser bolts reflect in the interior of the
lasercannon bubble.  Starkiller rechecks his firing swithces..Whitsun adjusts
his headphones, and lowers a glare reflector.  He raps on the power rotation
circuits, and gives them a little test burst.  The pod instantly rotates a few
degrees.  The large starship heads directly toward the three enemy ships and
at the last moment dives under the attacking craft.  Starkiller watches the
smaller crafts pass overhead, aching to open fire.  He calls Whitsun on the
intercom.

STARKILLER
I've got no signal.  I'm on target.  What's wrong?  What are they waiting for?

I've got an open shield!

The three Imperial craft are firing incessantly at point blank range.

WHITSUN
Wait for the signal.

But Starkiller has a perfect shot, and he can't wait.  He squeezes the trigger
and the giant lasercannon, with a burst of smoke and electrical charge, opens
up on the enemy craft.  Moments later, the signal lights flash on and Whitsun
commences firing on the receeding hunter-destroyers.  Two of the Imperial
craft break off, and prepare for another attack run.  The third is hit by a
concentrated barrage from the two captains, and begins spinning out of
control, until it finally explodes.  Whitsun gives Starkiller a victory wave,
which Starkiller gleefully returns.  These moments of triumph are broken by
the intercom.

GENERAL
Annikin, next run you wait for my signal.  We haven't much power to spare on
your inaccurate grandstanding!

Starkiller's pride is wounded.  He resets his accelerators, as the two
remaining hunter-destroyers begin a second run.

117.  BRIDGE - STARSHIP - SPACE

Han turns to the general.

HAN
We have a weakened shield on the port turret...

GENERAL
Warn Starkiller.  Get him out of there.  (to Threepio)  Change your heading by
point five.

118.  AFT SECTION - STARSHIP - SPACE

Princess Leia listens to Han warn Starkiller.

HAN
Your shield power is down.  Abandon that positions, and seal that section.
Report!  Captain, do you hear me?  Captain?!!!

Leia becomes worried that something has happened to Annikin.  The young
captain switches off the intercom system and signals to Whitsun that the
system has gone dead.  Before Whitsun can answer, the two hunter-destroyer
spacecraft are upon them once again.  Laser bolts flash all around them.  The
general's signal flashes on, and the captain starts to return the fire.  One
of the Imperial fighters concentrates its fire on Starkiller's weakened
gunport.  A direct hit blows open a hole in the turret, and everything that
isn't bolted down is sucked into outer space, including Starkiller.  He bangs
against the side of the starship, held only by a weakened lifeline.

The princess hears Whitsun explain Starkiller's predicament, and rushes back
to help him.  She is stopped by a pressure locked door leading to the gun
emplacement.

119.  BRIDGE - STARSHIP - SPACE

The general orders Threepio to swing the spacecraft around and start a new
attack.  He turns to Artwo.

GENERAL
Use the aft port...See what you can do for Starkiller.

Artwo hurriedly waddles out of the bridge.  Threepio and Han simultaneously
turn to the general.

THREEPIO
More craft approaching!

HAN
It looks like at least six or seven.

The general studies the radar scopes and then checks a Galactic map displayed
on one of the monitors.

GENERAL
Change course to three point one.

THREEPIO
That will head us directly into the path of the Norton Asteroid Belt.

HAN
That Asteroid Belt is too dense to pass through...The ship won't make it!

GENERAL
We'll never defeat them in combat.  It's our only chance to lose them.

Threepio punches in new coordinates, and the starship veers away toward the
treacherous asteroid belt.

120.  AFT SECTION - STARSHIP - SPACE

Whitsun fires on one ofthe two hunter-destroyers which is pacing the rebel
starship.  Starkiller unsuccessfully tries to pull himself back inside the
spacecraft.  The enemy craft maneuvers wildly in an attempt to get into a
better position, to fire on Starkiller.  Whitsun blasts away, until the
Imperial spacecraft spews forth equipment and personnel, careens off, and
eventually explodes.

Artwo wobbles along the exterior of the ship, until he reaches the stranded
captain.  He attaches a new lifeline to the young Jedi's spacesuit, and makes
his way back inside the wounded craft.  Starkiller is pulled to safety just as
the starship enters the asteroid belt.  A barrage of small and large asteroids
begins to pelt the ship, causing a great deal of damage.

GENERAL (over intercom)
Secure yourselves.  We may have to eject.  Abandon the turrets.

The princess rushes back to her lifepod and straps herself in.  Whitsun and
Artwo help Starkiller make his way out of the lasercannon turrets and through
a series of locks, to the lifepod area.

121.  BRIDGE - STARSHIP - SPACE

The asteroids hit hard.  The ship is buffeted to and fro as the general, Han,
and Threepio struggle into their spacesuit-like lifepods.  The Imperial
hunter-destroyer closest to the rebel ship explodes in the onrush of deadly
asteroids.  The new reinforcement hunter-destroyers turn back and give up the
pursuit.  They disappear from the tracking monitors.  The asteroid bombardment
becomes almost unbearable.  Warning lights begin to flash.  Extending foils,
antennae, and armament pods are scraped away from the starship hull.  A
baseball-sized hole is punched through the midsection, and hundreds of objects
are sucked into space.  A large locker eventually plugs the opening.  The
starship and her passengers shudder and sway under the punishment of the
asteroid storm.

THREEPIO
The ship is breaking up.

HAN
We're almost clear of the storm.

THREEPIO
We'll never make it.  Eject, we must eject.

The general watches the computer monitor as the starship emerges from the far
side of the Asteroid Belt.

HAN
We're approaching one of the Forbidden Systems....

GENERAL
We've got to achieve orbit.

THREEPIO
We'll never make it.

The starship heads for a small blue-green planet in the distance.

122.  AFT SECTION - STARSHIP - SPACE

Starkiller was considerably shaken in the destruction of his laserturret.  He
is slightly dazed as Whitsun straps him into a lifepod with Artwo.

WHITSUN (to Artwo)
You watch him.  Make sure this pod gets off all right.

Artwo nods, and Whitsun moves to the second lifepod and straps himself in next
to the princess.

LEIA
Will he be all right?

WHITSUN
I think so.. His feelings for you are dangerous.  You should discourage him.

She is surprised that Starkiller has any feeling for her, but keeps her
emotions to herself.

123.  BRIDGE - STARSHIP - YAVIN ORBIT

The general is strapped into the lifepod with the two micro-packs containing
the young princes.  Han and Threepio are in the second lifepod.

HAN
We're in orbit.

THREEPIO
We've got to eject now!  Those reactors won't hold much longer.  This ship's
going to end up in a million little pieces,... and I don't want to be one of
them.

HAN
All lifepod systems are operative.

GENERAL (into intercom)
If you boys are ready back there, we'll get off this bucket.

WHITSUN
All systems operative...I have the signal.

ARTWO
All systems operative...We have the signal.

Han salutes the general, and his lifepod jettisons away from the crippled
starship.  He is quickly followed by the general.

124.  AFT SECTION - STARSHIP - YAVIN ORBIT

Artwo pushes the jettison switch, but nothing happens.  Starkiller slowly and
with some difficulty, pushes the switch two or three times.  Nothing happens.
He begins to look a little worried.

STARKILLER (into intercom)
We've got a problem...Wait a second...

Artwo pushes the switch again, and the lifepod blasts off in a cloud of smoke
and debris.  Whitsun also seems to be having a problem.  Half the lights on
his control panel have gone dead.  He struggles to reactivate them.

WHITSUN
My power's out!

GENERAL (over intercom)
Is it a faulty switch?

WHITSUN
No.  The whole bank is out.

Whitsun gives the princess a reassuring look, then punches some information
into the computer.  The monitor flashes:  "Income line main power."  He looks
outside the lifepod and sees a damaged cable.

WHITSUN
I've found it...

GENERAL
You haven't much time...The auxiliary units have already blown....

Whitsun scrambles out of the lifepod and rushes over to the severed connector.

He works on it for a few moments, then stops with a rather defeated look.  The
princess watches him as he tries to think of a solution.  A great explosion is
heard in the forward part of the ship.

125.  LIFEPODS - SPACE - YAVIN ORBIT

The two lifepods containing the general, and Han and Threepio drift away from
the disabled starship.

GENERAL
Where's Starkiller?

HAN
I can't see him either.

Starkiller uses the small rockets on his lifepod to maneuver back toward the
burning starship.  He can hear the general over the intercom.

GENERAL
Starkiller, where are you?  Report in.

Starkiller reaches down and switches off the intercom.

126.  AFT SECTION - STARSHIP - YAVIN ORBIT

Whitsun appears to have found a solution to his situation and rushes back to
the princess.  He reaches in and locks on the power switch.

WHITSUN
There is only one possible solution, and we must use it.  Lock the hitch and
make sure it is sealed.

PRINCESS
But what of...

Another explosion creates a large bulge in the wall of the aft section.

WHITSUN
We've no time!

He slams the hatch shut and runs to the power connector.  Smoke begins to fill
the chamber, as Whitsun slams a large metallic dampening tool across the
damaged connector terminals, and the lifepod jettisons away.

127.  LIFEPODS - SPACE - YAVIN ORBIT

The princess jettisons free, as Starkiller moves toward the crippled ship.
Leia calls the general on the intercom.

LEIA
I'm all right, but Clieg is still on board.

GENERAL
Starkiller, stay out of there.

With a rumble, the starship disappears in a spectacular explosion, sending
debris in all directions.  Starkiller stops his lifepod and it starts to
drift.  He is weeping.  Han and the general helplessly watch the remains of
the explosion drift away.

GENERAL
Starkiller, stay near Leia.  Use your beacon.  Coordinate with us.

Starkiller's intercom is weak, and there is a great deal of static.  The
lifepods drift toward the awesome blue-green Yavin surface.  The general loses
sight of the other lifepods as the descend through the cloud cover.

GENERAL
Captain, I'm losing your beacon.  Send me a new signal.

All he gets is static.  The planet surface rushes toward the falling lifepods.

Retrorockets automatically kick in and slow the pods.  Two of the small craft
break through the clouds and land in the dense, steaming jungles.

128.  VINE JUNGLE - YAVIN

The general's lifepod crashes through the foliage until it comes to rest in
the middle of a large vine-covered tree.  He grabs the two micro-packs and
climbs out of the lifepod, and onto a large moss-covered limb.  Han and
Threepio run to the base of the huge tree.

HAN
Are you all right?

GENERAL
Fine...Any signal from Annikin?

HAN
Nothing yet.  I think they landed further south.

The general attaches a thin cable from his utility belt to the tree trunk, and
slides to the ground.  Han takes the micro-packs from him.  The general looks
around at the jungle.

GENERAL
This is dangerous country...We'd better stay together.

THREEPIO
The wildlife in the forbidden system is extremely hostile...Perhaps we should
seek shelter?

Han inspects the power units of the micro packs.

HAN
Windy's unit is very low.  I can't tell if the unit is still functioning.

GENERAL
We have to find a place to revive them.  We'll start moving south.  We should
find protection along that ridge.

The general grabs one of the micro-packs and starts off into the murky jungle.

Han and Threepio quickly follow.  The jungle is a strange and eerie, fog-laden
purgatory.  Gruesome and unnatural sounds permeate this ghostly wasteland.
Everyone is cautious, and on the alert for an unseen danger.

129.  FOREST OF THE GARGANTUANS - YAVIN

Starkiller's lifepod is also caught in the limbs of a gargantuan tree.  The
lifepod has been ripped in half by the crash landing.  The unconscious Jedi
hangs half out of the damaged craft.  A two foot high insect-like creature
scoots down a branch and onto the back of the dormant warrior.  The insect
lets out a chilling hissing sound, and a slimy tube emerges from its hairy
mouth, waking Starkiller.  He is immediately aware of the insect.  His eyes
are open, but he doesn't move.  Suddenly, with one quick blow, he knocks the
creature against the side of the spacecraft, and it is squashed lifeless.

Starkiller is a little groggy, but he manages to climb out of the wreckage.
He looks around for Artwo.

STARKILLER
Artwo!  Artwo Detwo!

ARTWO
Help!

Starkiller turns and sees the little robot hanging upside down, one of his
three feet caught in a vine.  He lifts Artwo out of his predicament and places
him securely on a wide limb.

STARKILLER
Did you see Leia?

ARTWO
She landed on the other side of those trees, approximately eight hundred
meters.

STARKILLER
Well, come on, old buddy.  Let's get ourselves out of this tree.

130.  VINE JUNGLE RIDGE - YAVIN

The general, Han and Threepio reach a shallow cave near the top of a steep
ridge.  They quickly pull off the micro-packs and place them on a clear piece
of ground at the mouth of the cave.

GENERAL (to Han)
Check out the inside.  Threepio, stand guard.  Keep your eyes on the
countryside.

He looks at the power units on the micro-packs and shakes his head with a
worried look.  Han returns from a survey of the inside of the cave.

HAN
It doesn't go very far.  There's nothing back there.

GENERAL
Help me with this.

Han helps the general lift the top from the case containing Windy, the younger
of the two princes.  The small boy appears lifeless as the general pulls him
from his encasement, and rests him on the cave floor.  Han pulls a small
respiration out of the micro-packs and places it over the boy's nose.  The
general attaches two electrodes over his heart.

HAN
He doesn't look good.

The little prince begins to turn blue.  The general grows tense.  Windy starts
to regain consciousness, but begins coughing and choking, then goes limp
again.  The general quickly props Windy's mouth open with a small plastic rod
and checks the reading on his power pack.

GENERAL
We need more power...tap off Biggs' unit...Quickly!

He then places Windy's arms behind his back and starts pressing on his chest
with sharp, rhythmic movements.  Han attaches new electrodes to the boy's
heart.  Windy again comes to, choking and coughing.  Finally, he begins to
cry.  The general takes the plastic tube from his mouth and tenderly pats him
on the back.

GENERAL
Let's get Biggs out of there.  He shouldn't be a problem.

131.  FOREST OF THE GARGANTUANS - YAVIN

Starkiller slams closed the hatch of Princess Leia's lifepod.  In the
distance, the subhuman cries of lonesome tree beasts cut through the forest
murmur.

ARTWO
Perhaps she went in search of us.

Starkiller studies the ground around the capsule.  There are a great many
footprints, and much broken foliage.

STARKILLER
Someone's got her.  She put up quite a fight...It's an easy trail to follow.

132.  VINE JUNGLE RIDGE - YAVIN

Both Biggs and Windy are sleeping restlessly on the floor of the cave.  Han
watches over them as the general scans the valley below with a pair of
electrobinoculars.

THREEPIO
It's about fourteen degrees below the horizon... a little to the left.

The electrobinoculars sweep the rich green landscape until the come to rest on
a bright reflection, revealing some type of structure.

GENERAL
It's too small to be a military base...Could belong to a trapper.

THREEPIO
Highly unusual...

GENERAL
It's on the way.  Perhaps we should investigate.

Little Biggs wakes up with a giant yawn.

BIGGS
Hey!  Where are we?

133.  FOREST OF THE GARGANTUANS - YAVIN

The gargantuan trees are shrouded in mist, and the ominous sounds of unearthly
creatures fill the air.  Starkiller moves quietly and cautiously, followed by
Artwo, who inadvertently makes a loud clicking sound.  The young warrior
stops, and motions to the stubby little robot.

STARKILLER
Wait here.  If I don't return by zero two hundred, come looking for me.

The mechanical dwarf acknowledges with his computer light.  Starkiller moves
swiftly and silently forward, until he hears laughing and voices.  He climbs
up the bankside of a huge tree, and inches his way out onto one of the huge
overhanging branches.  Below him, he can see a group of scruffy, alien
trappers sitting around a nutron stove joking and telling stories.  Parked on
either side of the group are two large, tank-like "jungle crawlers."  Behind
the crawlers, five Wookees, (huge grey and furry beasts) hang upside down in a
tree.  Occasionally, they thrash about in great anger and frustration.

The trappers speak in a strange language, and although they appear slightly
human, they are slimy, deformed, hideous looking creatures.  Two of the
trappers yell at one another in a friendly argument.  One shirtless creature
goes into a "crawler," and the remaining eight laugh hysterically.  Starkiller
moves further out on the limb to get a better view.  A couple of pieces of
bark break loose, and float a hundred feet to the ground.  The trappers fail
to notice.  Moments later, the shirtless trapper emerges from the crawler with
Princess Leia held unconscious and half naked over his head.  Starkiller's
rage knows no bounds.  With a terrifying Jedi war cry, the young captain jumps
from the tree, sails over a hundred feet, and with great agility, lands in the
middle of the startled trappers.  In one continuous rapid motion, he ignites
his lasersword and cuts down three of the vile creatures.  The shirtless
trapper swings the princess over his shoulder, and runs back into the huge
"jungle crawler."  Two other trappers reach for their pistols, but the Jedi
has killed them before their weapons can clear leather.  The three remaining
creatures have their pistols out and start firing.  Explosions erupt all
around Starkiller.  One blast hits the branch holding the Wookees, and they
collapse with a loud screech in a heap.  One of the trappers is caught in the
crossfire and is blown apart.

When the smoke clears, Starkiller lies unconscious amid the burning rubble.
The jungle crawler begins to move out of the camp.  The last two trappers run
after it.  One is able to jump on board, but the second trapper runs too close
to the now freed Wookees.  Chewbacca, one of the furry giants, grabs him and
snaps him in two, like a stick of wood.  The jungle crawler disappears in the
forest mist.  The eight foot Chewbacca, who resembles a huge, grey bushbaby
with fierce baboon-like fangs, struggles to free his companions.

Starkiller regains semiconsciousness, and attempts to get up, only to groan
and collapse back into unconsciousness.  The Wookees gather around him and
poke him a couple times to see if he is still alive.  They squawk and jabber,
apparently in some kind of argument.  Finally, Dewanna, the largest of the
Wookees, picks up Starkiller and puts him over his shoulder.  The group
disappears into the jungle foliage.

134.  TREE HOUSE - FOREST OF THE GARGANTUANS - YAVIN

Han and Threepio carry the two little boys on their shoulders.  The general
stops on the edge of a clearing, and motions for the others to be still.
Biggs turns around, and signals his little brother to be quiet.  On the
opposite side of the clearing, a small metal structure is attached to one of
the huge trees.  It is a small, weatherbeaten hut of futuristic design.  It
appears deserted.  The general cautiously approaches the structure.

VOICE
Howdy stranger...What can I offer you?

The general spins around and sees Owen Lars, an aged and scruffy looking
anthropologist.

LARS (con't)
I'm Owen Lars of Bastine.

The general takes the old man's extended hand.

GENERAL
I'm Luke Skywalker of Aquilae.

He signals for the others to join him in the clearing.

135.  WOOKEE CAMP - YAVIN

The small caravan of Wookees, led by Chewbacca, enters a small clearing
surrounded by many bark and mud hovels.  Young Wookees race ahead of the group
yelling, and running in and out of the grubby little dwellings.  Giant,
bushbaby-like Wookees of all ages and sizes, make their way into the clearing.

Many stand dumbfounded, but others let out a joyful scream and rush up to
members of the group, hugging and kissing them.

Dewanna dumps the unconscious Starkiller on a raised area in the middle of the
clearing.  Armed Wookees immediately surround the helpless human.  Chewbacca
enters the largest of the lodges.  He is greeted by his father, Auzituck,
Chief of the Kaapauku tribe; an old and feeble Wookee dressed in royal skins
and headdress.

136.  INTERIOR - ANTHROPOLOGIST HUT - YAVIN

Anthropologist Lars, the general, Han and the children sit around a large
table eating.  Lars yells into the kitchen.

LARS
Beru!  Where's the thanta sauce?

Beru Lars, Owen's warm, plump wife, enters, carrying a small pitcher.  She
smiles at Owen.

BERU
I swan!  I put it right here in front, so you'd see it...(to Han)  Here's some
Bum Bum extract.  It's very mild...

LARS (to general)
There are no settlers to the south since the Dau family was wiped out... I'm
afraid I couldn't even get in there to bury them... Those Wookees are the
fiercest critters I've ever run across.  A new tribe moved in down there about
a year ago...and it's been hell ever since.  Only Yourellian trappers venture
in there now, and many of them don't even come back.

GENERAL
Where's the nearest city?

LARS
No cities at all...only a few scattered settlers and -- one Imperial
outpost... But the troops are of no help.  They kill and plunder rather than
protect...Enough...If your friends landed father south, I'd fear for them.

HAN
How far is the outpost from here?

LARS
Five leagues...an oppressive blight.

GENERAL
What class is it?  How many support craft?

LARS
It's very small, a class two....Only ten or twelve starraiders, I think.

Beru fusses over the boys, who refuse to eat their vegetables.  She makes up a
game, which tricks them into eating.  The general ponders the situation.  Han
eats, like he hasn't eaten in years.

137.  WOOKEE CAMP - AQUILAE [??  Yavin?]

Starkiller is surrounded by Wookees.  Young ones push through to get a better
look, as the adults jabber and argue about the human.  Starkiller regains
consciousness with a groan, and a sudden hush sweeps over the gathering.
Starkiller staggers to his feet, and the group of Wookees back away in mass.
The young Jedi surveys the situation for a few moments.  The Wookees appear to
be frightened of this brave warrior.  He reaches for his weapons, but they are
gone.  Three guards with long spears attempt to contain Starkiller.  With a
loud shout, he lunges at them, and they give him a little room.

Jommillia, a large, ferocious Wookee, steps forward.  He says something to the
guards, and they quickly move away.  He struts before Starkiller, boasting and
taunting him with his spear and battle ax.  The captain studies the Wookee
warrior as he paces back and forth, his helmet plumes dancing and chest armor
jangling.  Without warning, Starkiller lets out another loud yell, startling
Jommillia into backing off.  Starkiller continues his verbal assault, calling
the uncomprehending Wookee all manner of vile and degrading things.  Jommillia
continues to back into the surrounding crowd, momentarily confused by this odd
behaviour.  Slowly, Jommillia begins to grin.  He takes a defensive stance,
then begins to laugh hysterically.  This stops Starkiller.  The giant Wookee
swings his deadly, double-bladed battle ax over his head and expertly throws
it directly at the young captain's head.  To the amazement of Jommillia and
the other Wookees, Starkiller, with Jedi skill and concentration, catches the
ax in mid-air, then charges his furry opponent.

Jommillia is caught off-guard, but manages to block Starkiller's attack with
his spear.  The two warriors engage in a savage and fantastic duel.
Starkiller cuts the Wookee's spear in half, but is hit along the side of the
head by the shaft and is momentarily dazed.  The battle ax is knocked from his
hands.  He grabs the spear shaft and rams the giant creature in the belly.  A
loud command from outside the crowd stops the fight.  The Wookees part,
revealing Chewbacca and his father, who approach the two warriors.  Jommillia
bows before his chief, and is commanded to move away.  Chewbacca speaks to
Starkiller.  He doesn't understand, but welcomes the chance to catch his
breath.  Chewbacca then presents his father, who steps forward and bows before
the mighty Jedi.  Chewbacca bows also, as the crowd of Wookees chatter in
disbelief.  When the chief and his son rise, Starkiller bows down before them.

This pleases the Wookees, and they screech and cheer.

138.  TREE HOUSE - FOREST OF THE GARGANTUANS - YAVIN

Mr. and Mrs. Lars stand on the balcony of their tree house with Threepio and
the two little princes, Biggs, and Windy.  Han and the general emerge with
large survival backpacks and multiplelaser weapons.

GENERAL (to Threepio)
We'll call for you when we've found them.

THREEPIO
Your orders are quite clear.  The boys will be quite safe.

LARS
Don't worry.  The patrols never come out this far.  We'll take good care of
the boys.

GENERAL
Lars, your kindness will surely be rewarded.

LARS
Just be careful out there...

He pats Skywalker on the back as the old Jedi and the ever faithful Han
descend from the tree house.  [something whited out?]  At the base of the huge
tree, the warriors climb aboard two small rocket powered platforms.

LARS (yelling down to them)
They're pretty old.  I hope they'll be all right!

GENERAL
Out here, they're a wonderment.

Threepio and the kids wave as the jelsticks start with a whine.  They idle
about five feet above the ground.

LARS
Good hunting.  May the force of others be with you.

Han and the general wave as they ride off into the foreboding Yavin sunset.

139.  WOOKEE CAMP - YAVIN - NIGHT

A beautiful, but frenzied fire festival is underway.  Wookees perform the
Waita Tar dance, and yodel in a barking fashion around a large fire.  The
female Wookees arrive, carrying torches, and move in a circle around the
males.  The giant creatures are too involved to notice that little Artwo makes
his way around the dancers.  The stubby robot stops near one of the mud huts,
and looks around.  He then wobbles off toward the large chief's quarters, and
enters.

140.  WOOKEE CAMP - YAVIN - MORNING

Artwo exits the chief's hut and looks around.  It is a quiet, grey morning.  A
low mist hangs over the now deserted clearing.  He turns and signals back into
the hut.  Starkiller cautiously emerges from the mud house.  he wears a crude
backpack, and carries a large battle ax.  They start across the clearing.
Suddenly, out of nowhere, Chewbacca is standing before them.  He says nothing,
but scratches his head and then circles around Starkiller.

STARKILLER
We are leaving...We must go.  Stand away!

The huge Wookee kneels and bows down in front of the young Jedi.  Starkiller
looks down and smiles.

STARKILLER
Rise my friend.  We will meet again.

Starkiller walks toward the jungle and Chewbacca scurries ahead of him and
bows down once more.

ARTWO
What does he want?

Starkiller shakes his head, and rubs his several days growth of beard.  He
leans down toward Chewbacca.

STARKILLER
Stand up so we can talk properly.

Chewbacca jabbers in a [something whited out] questioning fashion.

STARKILLER
I am grateful to you and your people, but I must go.  I wish you understood
me.  It would make things so much easier.  Go!  Go!

Starkiller turns away, and begins to walk toward the jungle again.  Chewbacca
gets to his feet, and runs after the Jedi, following a few paces behind.
Starkiller notices the Wookee following them, and shakes his head.

141.  FOREST OF THE GARGANTUANS - TRAPPER SIGHT [sic] - YAVIN

The bodies of the killed trappers are covered with rat-sized insects.  A laser
explosion erupts in the middle of the slimy creatures and they scatter into
the underbrush.  Han and the general turn over one of the dead trappers.

HAN
They ran into something.

GENERAL
It's strange they left their dead.  Something...

The constant cacophony of jungle creatures suddenly stops.  The two warriors
scan the jungle for possible danger.  Han draws his laserpistol.  The
cacophony starts again, as the general ignites his lasersword.

HAN
Two or three moving this way, from the east.

He listens more closely for a few moments.

HAN (con't)
It's Artwo!

Starkiller and Artwo break out of the dark foliage into the clearing.  He
waves to Han and the general.  Artwo waddles a few paces behind.  Chewbacca
sees the humans and stops at the edge of the jungle.  He watches as Starkiller
and the general carry on an animated conversation.  Han sees the Wookee
lurking in the shadows.

HAN
You were followed.

STARKILLER
He wouldn't stay.  He's one of the ones I saved...

Han calls out to Chewbacca in the Wookee's own language, and the huge,
lumbering creature approaches the group.  Han and the Wookee talk for a few
moments, then embrace as if they were old friends.  Starkiller is surprised.

HAN (to Starkiller)
This is Chewbacca, son of Auzituck, Prince of the Sawas, a very powerful
tribe.  It seems they've made you a god.

The general smiles.  Starkiller is embarrassed.

142.  VINE JUNGLE RIDGE - YAVIN

Starkiller joins the general on a ridge overlooking the Imperial outpost of
Mavassi.  All that can be seen of the fortress is a lone guard standing on a
small pedastal, jutting out above the dense jungle.

GENERAL
Their trail leads directly to the outpost.  Patrols are probably out looking
for us by now.

STARKILLER
Finding her in there isn't going to be easy.

GENERAL
Getting in there is going to be impossible.  We could sure use one of those
starships.

Starkiller spots something moving in the jungle.  He scans the area with his
electrobinoculars.

STARKILLER
Something's going on down there...Han!

Han moves up next to Starkiller, followed closely by Chewbacca.

STARKILLER
Your eyes are better than mine....What do you make of that?

HAN
They look like Wookees...hundreds of them.

Han turns and speaks to Chewbacca, gesturing toward the movement far below in
the jungle.

HAN
Apparently, it's a siege.  They've been harassing the outpost for almost two
years.

GENERAL
Have they ever tried to take the fortress?

Han relays this to Chewbacca.

HAN
He says they've made several assaults, but they are no match for the weapons.

GENERAL
It's only a class three fortress.  Maybe they just need a little help.

Starkiller grins, and Han says something to Chewbacca, who becomes excited and
screeches loudly.

143.  INTERIOR - TREEHOUSE - YAVIN

The incoming signal alarm on the anthropologist's radio system wails through
the calm of the tree house.  Biggs, dragging an eight-legged, furry rodent,
rushes up to the old radio and flips the receiver.

BIGGS
I'm reading yah.  Go ahead.

GENERAL
Biggs, how are you getting along?

BIGGS
Great!  I caught a thumper...a really big one.  Its name is "Amber."

He yanks on the leash, and the furry beast lets out a strained yelp.

GENERAL
Good, Biggs.  How's your brother?  Are you taking good care of him?

BIGGS
Oh, sure.  He's out collecting "Abas" with Owen and Beru.  I'm in charge here.

Did you find Leia?

GENERAL
Not yet.  We'll be away for a while.  You mind Lars until we return.  May the
force of others be with you.

BIGGS
All right.  Take care.

Threepio enters the room, carrying a plate of steaming food.  Biggs turns the
radio off, and puts the receiver away.  A crashing sound and voices are heard
in the clearing below.

THREEPIO
Come and eat your dinner.

BIGGS
They're back!  They're back!  Come Amber!

The furry rodent jumps up onto its eight stubby legs and rushes over to the
door, but stops short, and begins to growl.  Biggs stops behind the creature.

BIGGS
What is it, Amber?

Biggs peeks out the window, and sees a patrol of six Imperial stormtroopers
climbing out of an airtank.  He ducks back, and tugs Amber away from the door.

BIGGS
Quiet, Amber.  Come here.  Come on.

THREEPIO
What's wrong?

BIGGS
Troopers.  We must hide!  Stay quiet.

Biggs and the robot scramble for a trap door near a large shelf.  The troops
begin to climb the ladder to the tree house.  The trap door is heavy, and the
robot and the little boy struggle to get it open.  The troops break in the
door, just as Threepio closes the trap door.  The stormtroopers are led by a
rough looking sergeant.  They poke around, tearing everything apart.  Biggs
struggles to keep Amber quiet.  Suddenly he realizes something.

BIGGS
The food!

The sergeant takes the bowl of food from the table and studies it.  He then
takes a small chrome ball from his pocket, and tosses it into the air.
[something whited out?]  Antennae shoot from its surface as it floats around
the room.  Eventually, it hovers over the trap door.  A sinister grin sweeps
across the sergeant's face as he moves over to the trap door and puts the
chrome ball back into his pocket.

Threepio puts his arm around Biggs who is desperately clutching the struggling
thumper.  All the movement above them stops, and Biggs looks to the robot.

THREEPIO (quietly)
They're still up there.  Stay still.

The silence continues, then suddenly the trap door swings open with a loud
bang.  Amber breaks away from Biggs, and attacks the sergeant.  One of the
other troopers cuts the thumper in half with his lasersword.  The sergeant
pulls Biggs out of his hiding place.  Biggs stares at the dead thumper.

SERGEANT
Well, well, here's one of them, anyway.  Send seekers in all directions.  Find
the others!

144.  VINE JUNGLE RIDGE - YAVIN

The general sits at the head of the large stone table, pushing small markers
around.  Han explains what the general is doing, to ten or fifteen Wookee
chiefs gathered around the table.  Occasionally, Chewbacca puts in a word of
further explanation or answers a question.  Starkiller sits back silently
watching the Wookee warriors and listens to the general's plan.

GENERAL
.... then they pull back to here.  That's where the trap will be set.  No-one
must advance.  An assault on the perimeter is useless.  Our only hope is to
use their weapons against them.

The general pauses, while Han and Chewbacca translate.

GENERAL (to Starkiller)
Once we acquire those tanks, our prime object must be to secure the starship.
No-one must escape.

145.  IMPERIAL OUTPOST - VINE JUNGLE - YAVIN

Three officers run along a row of giant air tnaks to a perimeter bunker.
There, two stormtroopers are watching the jungle.  When the officers arrive,
the troopers let them look through the powerful, mounted electrobinoculars.
One of the troopers points out several areas in the dense jungle.

146.  INTERIOR - CONTROL ROOM - IMPERIAL OUTPOST - YAVIN

A trooper sitting at an elaborate control panel, turns to an officer watching
a monitor system.

TROOPER
A large concentration of trestuals at point E-2.

OFFICER
Alert squads one through six!

147.  VINE JUNGLES - OUTPOST PERIMETER - YAVIN

The general stands in a small clearing surrounded, by many armed Wookees
carrying large shiny shields.  Han moves back and forth, barking orders to the
assembled creatures.

GENERAL (to Han)
We're ready.  Give them the signal.

Han motions to a young Wookee, who takes off, running through the jungle.

148.  IMPERIAL OUTPOST - VINE JUNGLE - YAVIN

Three large air tanks slowly move toward the outpost perimeter.  The tank
pilots sit on the hatch rims of the ponderous weapons, studying the movements
of the Wookees.  The tank personnel talk to one another on an intercom system.

TANK PILOT
There is a large concentration....red two by C-3.  Let's break them up.

The pilots slip into the tanks and close the hatches.  The tanks open up with
a barrage of laser bolts which create a wall of explosions.  The Wookies
retreat, and the tanks follow.  The tank crews track the feeling creatures
with various electronic scopes, and laugh at the fleeing creatures.

149.  VINE JUNGLE - OUTPOST PERIMETER - YAVIN

The general stands on a limb of a jungle tree, watching the advancing tanks.
Starkiller is on another branch a few feet away.

GENERAL
They've grown sloppy fighting Wookees.  The intra-fazer systems aren't on.
They're in for a little surprise.

Starkiller flashes a signal mirror, which is received by a Wookee near the
tanks.  The Wookees are in pairs, and they hold heavy stone wedges attached to
woven vines; which in turn, are fastened high in the trees.  When the tanks
pass directly under the Wookees, they let loose with the heavy stone
pendulums.  The wedges fly through the air, neatly clipping off the antenna
groupings protruding from the tops of the air tanks.

150.  INTERIOR - AIR TANK - VINE JUNGLE - YAVIN

Several of the lights and monitors go dark on the main control panel.  The
pilot flips several switches in a panic.

PILOT
All high phasing units are out.  We've lost all contact....

SERGEANT
Send out a ground signal!

Suddenly, all of the monitors go white, and static fills the crowded tank
interior.  An alarm signal sounds.

SERGEANT
What is it?!!!

PILOT
All signals...sensers....everything is coming right back to us.  Some kind of
deflection screen.  It's a total blackout.

SERGEANT
Get out there and see if you can see anything.

The pilot pushes a button and the main hatch slowly slides away.

151.  VINE JUNGLE - OUTPOST PERIMETER - YAVIN

The pilot pops out of the hatch and sses two rows of Wookee warriors holding
reflective shields.  They form a circle that totally encompasses the massive
air tank.  Han shouts a signal to a group of Wookees in another tree, and they
cut loose a bent limb which is attached to a noose around the tank's hatch.
The noose instantly tightens around the pilot, and he is plucked from the tank
and suspended fifty feet in the air.  In an equally swift move, Starkiller
drops a small gas grenade into the open hatch.  It explodes and engulfs the
tank in a grey mist.

The Wookees let out a joyful yell, and charge the tank.  Han yells at them to
stop, but several make it to the conquered craft before the gas cloud
dissipates and they are felled by the fumes.  Starkiller shakes his head, then
after the smoke clears, jumps on the back of the immobile tank.

Several signal mirrors flash their messages to Han and the general.

HAN
That makes four captured.

GENERAL
Have them camouflaged.  I'm going with Starkiller.

152.  INTERIOR - AIR-TANK - VINE JUNGLE - YAVIN

Wookees are removing the tank crew as Starkiller checks out the power
controls.  The general slides through the main hatch.

GENERAL
Any damage?

STARKILLER
She's fine...We're ready to move.

GENERAL
Then let's go...

The general yells for the Wookees to clear the tanks, and they scramble out of
the hatch.

153.  VINE JUNGLE - OUTPOST PERIMETER - YAVIN

The tank starts up with a loud roar, startling the many Wookees resting on the
mighty vehicle.  Chewbacca yells at the warriors and they fall a few feet
behind the tank, their shields forming a shiny protective wall.

154.  IMPERIAL OUTPOST - VINE JUNGLE - YAVIN

Several officers stand on a parked air-tank trying to get a better view of the
operation.  A light landspeeder pulls up next to the group, and a general gets
out.  The officers snap to attention.

GENERAL
Can you see anything?

OFFICER
No Sir, but they've stopped firing.

AID [sic]
Communications still can't reach them, Sir.

GENERAL
Nobody seems to know what's going on.

OFFICER
I'm sure they've got them on the run, Sir.

A laserbolt flashes out of the jungle and knocks out a guard tower about a
quarter of a mile from where the men are standing.  Seconds later, the air-
tank on which they are standing explodes into a million pieces.  Out of the
jungle, rumbles the captured air-tank, driven by Starkiller and followed by a
column of Wookee warriors.

Alarms sound, troops rush from the low block houses, and a battle rages inside
the outpost.  Wookees with spears, axes, and arrows, manage to hold their own
against the laser weapons of the stormtroopers.  Explosions erupt everywhere,
as the Wookees begin to use captured laserrifles.  They are much fiercer
fighters than the soft Imperial troops.

155.  INTERIOR - AIR-TANK - OUTPOST - YAVIN

Starkiller works the controls of the air-tank as the general watches the
monitors, and works the laserguns.

GENERAL
Swing left.  They're trying to cut us off.

156.  STARSHIP RUNWAY - IMPERIAL OUTPOST - YAVIN

Starkiller maneuvers the air-tank in front of a line of ten starships, cutting
off a platoon of stormtroopers.  The troops open fire on the tank, but are cut
down by a group of Wookees who have moved in behind them.  Han and Artwo run
up to the tank as Starkiller and the general climb out of the hatch.

HAN
We've taken the main control center.  All power units have been shut down.
They're helpless.

STARKILLER
Have they found Leia?

HAN
They've taken her back to Aquilae.  The ship left not more than ten hours ago.

GENERAL (to Han)
Set up a perimeter around these starships...Use as many men as you need.

157.  STAFF OFFICE - IMPERIAL OUTPOST - YAVIN

Starkiller and the general sit at a large table in the deserted office of the
Imperial Chief of Staff.  The room is in a state of disarray; papers are
scattered everywhere.  Artwo stands on a chair, projecting an image of the
"death star" fortress orbiting Aquilae, on the table top.

ARTWO
....And are connected to the central system by a series of crossing networks
similar to section TB4 or F687.

The projection switches to a close-up view of the transformer.  The general
studies it carefully, then leans back in his chair.  Artwo turns off the
projector.

GENERAL
I'm not going to stop you, but I think it's a reckless move.  Even if you
could get in, you'd never be able to get out... Just be patient.  We now have
enough ships to attack in force.

STARKILLER
But no pilots...

Han and Chewbacca enter the office.

HAN
Still no contact with Owen Lars or the kids...I'm afraid something's happened.

GENERAL
Have Chewbacca send two of his best warriors out there to get them.

Han relates this to Chewbacca.  The general turns back to Starkiller, who
watches Chewbacca leave the room.

STARKILLER (mocking)
They're fierce warriors, but you'll never teach them to fly.

The general gives him a stern look.

GENERAL
They'll fly, and Aquilae will be free.

STARKILLER
May the force of others be with you.

The general embraces the young Jedi.

GENERAL
Bring her back safely.

158.  OUTPOST RUNWAY - STARSHIP - YAVIN

Starkiller, dressed as an Imperial skyraider, and Artwo climb aboard one of
the giant four-man starships.  A crowd of Wookees, lead by Chewbacca, give a
rousing cheer for the departing Jedi.  Starkiller breaks into a smile and
waves to the joyous warriors.  The general watches the proceedings from a
bunker turret.  He is lost in thought.

159.  SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Three Imperial space transports dock inside the huge artificial moon.  Two
smaller convoy starships circle the larger craft until the three ships are
safely inside the vast fortress.

160.  CONFERENCE ROOM - INTERIOR SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

General Vader of the Imperial Space Fleet, hurries down a hallway, followed by
a group of officers.  They enter the large conference room where Leia is held
under heavy squad.  She appears well, but saddened.  Vader approaches her and
bows  before her.

VADER
I pray you have been treated honorably?  I am your servant, Darth Vader.  It
won't be long before we will be able to return you to your people.  (to an
aide)  Are the chambers ready?

AIDE
They are working on it, Sir.

Leia stares defiantly at him.  She starts to speak, but a powerful electric
shock engulfs her body, and she whines in extreme pain.

VADER
Just relax, and everything will be fine.  (to guards)  Take her to section
twenty-five.

Leia is forcibly taken from the room.

VADER (to officer)
What time do the doctors from Alderaan arrive?

OFFICER
Sixty-five hours, Sir.

VADER
Put all security stations on alert until they arrive.

The officer salutes smartly, and exits.

161.  IMPERIAL OUTPOST - VINE JUNGLE - YAVIN

A huge air tank rumbles along the approach to the Imperial outpost.  The pilot
sits on the main hatch of the tank, talking to his crew, by headphones.

PILOT
Any contact yet?... It appears deserted...I don't like it.

The tank enters the outpost perimeter and smoking rubble from the recent
battle comes into view.  The pilot becomes alarmed.

PILOT
There has been an attack!  Reverse direction.

The tank comes to a grinding halt, but before it can start up again, it is
surrounded by the Wookee army.  From out of nowhere, a Wookee is on the back
of the air-tank and has the pilot in a powerful armlock.

A Wookee chieftain rushes from a bunker, followed by an excited, jabbering
warrior.  They reach the captured air-tank just as the last crewman is hauled
out, and little Biggs pokes his head out of the hatch.  He is frightened.  His
younger brother, Windy, follows him out of the tank.  Below them, the Wookees
bully the captured crewmen.

WINDY
What will they do to us?

BIGGS
I don't know, but it don't look good.

Threepio pulls himself out of the air-tank, followed by Owen Lars and his
wife.  The Wookee chieftain climbs on board, and starts to jabber at the
group.  The Wookee carries on for some time, gesturing wildly, and continually
pointing at the sky.  The two boys are too scared to say anything.  Finally,
the Wookee kneels before them.  Threepio politely returns a short bow.

BIGGS
I don't get it.

The Wookee rises and again gestures skyward, just then a starship wildly
buzzes the field, upsidedown.  All the Wookees run for cover.  The chief
Wookee points to the crafts, and jabbers incessantly.

162.  INTERIOR - IMPERIAL STARSHIP - SKY OVER YAVIN

Chewbacca sits at the controls of a four-man starship.  His face is a twisted
combination of complete panic and an awesome religious experience.  The
general, sitting next to him, calmly switches a few buttons on the control
panel, as Han watches from the seat directly behind the Wookee.

GENERAL
You'll get the hang of it.

Han also gives the Wookee a few words of encouragement.

GENERAL
Now, let's see if we can get into orbit...Push this, then ease her up.

Chewbacca follows the instructions, but pulls back on the lever too fast and
the ships begins to vibrate and bounce violently.  Chewbacca thinks it's
funny, and begins to laugh hysterically.  Han becomes nervous and quiet.

GENERAL
Not so fast - Back off!  Back off!

Han yells at the Wookee, who can't respond because he is laughing so hard.
The general pulls back on the lever.  Han shakes his head, and gives the
general a worried look.

GENERAL
Don't worry.  Ignorance is on their side.

Han is beginning to look a little sick.  He gets up and rushes to the back of
the ship.

163.  IMPERIAL SPACE FORTRESS - DOCKING AREA - AQUILAE

The canopy on the starship pops open, and Artwo and the young Jedi, disguised
as a starraider, climb out onto the docking platform.  An officer and two
groundcrew approach him and salute.  Starkiller hands him his papers.

STARKILLER
I'm here to check the vent ports in the rim tracks.

OFFICER
Your ship is from Yavin... We've lost all contact with them.  What's going on
out there?

STARKILLER
There is a fierce inversion just east of Bull Pup station... It's really a
mess out there.

The officer smiles and the ground crew starts to check out the starship.
Starkiller heads for the main docking exit, followed by Artwo.  He remembers
something as he passes the control station, and calls out to the officer.

STARKILLER
Do you mind if I use your com-link?

OFFICER
No.  Go ahead.

Starkiller walks into the small control area and pretends to talk on an
intercom system.

STARKILLER (to Artwo)
Find the highest security area.

Artwo punches his claw arm into a computer socket, and the brain comes to
life, feeding information to the little robot.

Starkiller watches the officer as he directs the crewmen in the securing of
the starship.  Artwo removes his arm from the computer, and the duo leave the
control station.

ARTWO
Station 325 is the highest security area on board.  It's a detention area.

They disappear into a chamber lock hallway.

164.  ELEVATOR TUBE - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Starkiller, trying to look inconspicuous, waits for a horizontal elevator.
Troops and fortress personnel come and go, but no-one seems to pay any
attention to the pair.  Finally a small car arrives, and Starkiller follows
Artwo into the podlike vehicle, and it takes off through a vacuum tunnel.

165.  DETENTION AREA - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Starkiller and Artwo enter a security station.  Guards and electronic cutters
are everywhere.  An officer approaches Starkiller, and checks his papers.

OFFICER
The B-23 can't enter this station.

STARKILLER
But I need him.

OFFICER
Sorry.  No mechanical personnel.  It's restricted.

Starkiller watches helplessly, as Artwo is led into a waiting area.

OFFICER
You may proceed, but you'll have to be escorted.

A trooper joins Starkiller and leads him through a series of hallways.
Starkiller carefully surveys the area as he follows the guard.

TROOPER
Mathusians just beat the PDR's again.  They should be in another league.  Do
you follow the ecometrics?

The guard turns to discover that Starkiller has disappeared.  He is stunned,
then manages to pull out a small ring radio.

TROOPER
Code six - Alert.

166.  STARSHIP RUNWAY - IMPERIAL OUTPOST - YAVIN

Six Wookees sit before Han and the general, listening to Han explain something
about space fighting.  Owen Lars approaches the general.

LARS
We've made contact with the underground on Aquilae.  Things are tighter.  They
can only get one man out.  Datos is on his way.

GENERAL
We should be ready by the time he arrives.

Han turns to the general.

HAN
They're ready to go up.

The general makes a short statement to the Wookes in their own language.  They
let out a loud cheer, and run for the row of starships.

167.  STARSHIP - SPACE - YAVIN

The general sits next to Chewbacca, as he leads two other Wookee piloted
starships in a tight formation.  They head for a small cluster of asteroids
orbiting near the planet's surface.  The general quietly gives Chewbacca some
reassuring instructions.  Han leads a second formation of three ships,
following Chewbacca's group.  The two formations of starships make an attack
run on the asteroids.  The general watches as Chewbacca lines up and fires at
an asteroid blowing it into a million pieces.  The general smiles, and slaps
Chewbacca on the back.  The Wookees excitedly chatter among themselves over
the intercom system.

168.  DETENTION AREA HALLWAY - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

A patrol of ten men marches through one of the long hallways in the detention
area.  They stop at an intersection.  The officer in charge reports on the
intercom.

OFFICER
Ben Five to Moma.  All clear.

The troops relax, some stand in groups, others wander a distance away, poking
into the various small alleyways running off the main hallway.  One trooper
notices a small reflected light in one of the narrow corridors, and carefully
moves down the dark passageway to check it out.  Out of no-where, a fist
knocks the trooper unconscious and drags him into a small alcove.

The officer finishes his report on the intercom and yells for the troops to
fall-in.  Men scurry in all directions and out of a narrow corridor emerges
Starkiller, dressed in the uniform of an Imperial startrooper.  He joins the
platoon, and they march away.

169.  GENERAL'S QUARTERS - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

General Vader and several officers watch the progress of the search on TV
monitors.  The general speaks into an intercom.

VADER
Have them clear the area.  Bring in the seekers.

On the monitors, the troops are assembled in the main entry-way and several
small chrome balls are thrown into the hallway.  Small antennae pop from the
chrome surface, and the small balls float down the hallways.  Valorum, once a
proud Knight of the Sith, enters wearing the uniform of a stormtrooper.  He
snaps to attention before the general, and hands him a report.  Vader gives
Valorum a sly grin.

VALORUM
Contact has been lost with the ship carrying the doctors from Alderaan.  The
princess' treatment will have to be delayed.

VADER
We've just trapped your own friend Starkiller.  Watch us accomplish what you
found to be impossible.

Valorum is humiliated, but stays at attention.  Valorum [Vader?] gets an
emergency call on the intercom.

VADER
Yes...Yes... Put it on the view screen.

One of the TV monitors switches to an image of the unconscious trooper
Starkiller stripped.

VADER
Get me the Captain of the Guard.

170.  DETENTION AREA - MAIN ENTRY - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Three squads of troops including Starkiller, stand at attention in the main
entrance to the detention center, while the Captain of the Guard gets new
orders over his headphones.  Starkiller studies the situation carefully,
looking for a way out of his predicament.  The Captain of the Guard calls up
the platoon sergeants and gives them a series of orders.  They return to their
squads and begin to inspect the troops.  Starkiller begins to get worried.

The sergeant works his way down the line until he gets to the trooper next to
Starkiller.  He sees no chance of escape, but surprise.  Suddenly, he bolts
from the ranks and races down the hallway.

CAPTAIN OF THE GUARD
Squad leaders!

Ten troopers break out of the ranks and take up the chase.  Starkiller runs
down a corridor and rounds a corner, reaching a dead end.  The troops round
the corner and confront the trapped Jedi.  The sound of igniting laserswords
fills the hallway.  Starkiller takes a defensive stance, his huge lasersword
buzzing loudly.  The troops attack.  They fight with skill and bravery, but
are eventually all cut down by the invincible Jedi warrior.

Starkiller breaks away from the troops and runs down a long hallway.  A safety
door slides shut, closing off his escape.  He turns around in time to see
another door seal off the opposite end of the hallway.  Before he can make any
attempt to pry open the door, gas fills the sealed corridor.  Starkiller
collapses in a heap on the floor.

171.  GENERAL'S QUARTERS - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Vader laughs as he watches the unconscious Starkiller on the TV monitors.  All
of the other officers in the room are [something whited out] laughing and
joking, except Valorum, who remains grimly at attention.

GENERAL (to Valorum)
Take him to the special section.

Valorum salutes, and exits the offices.  Vader laughs again.

172.  STARSHIP RUNWAY - IMPERIAL OUTPOST - YAVIN

Nine gleaming starships sit in a row along the edge of the vast jungle runway.

Bizarre and colorful Wookee designs have been painted across the large
deflector fins of the spacecraft.  Some designs transform the ships into huge
and grotesque animals, while others create unique mosaic patterns.  The four-
man Wookee crews stand proudly at attention in front of their ships.  The
general, along with Han and the underground leader, Datos, review the
assembled Wookees.

In one of the Wookee crews, a pilot is picking fleas off the back of his tail
gunner.  When the general passes, he snaps to attention.  There is a gleam in
the general's eye as he shows off his strike force to the crusty old
underground leader.  When they've inspected the last starship, Datos turns to
the general.

DATOS
I'm speechless.  It's amazing.  A most impressive display.  For the first time
since the take-over, I feel real hope.

GENERAL
Will your people be ready?

DATOS
Our forces have already started sabotaging their com-link set ups.  A refugee
camp on Mananyo has been conducting raids on shipping from Alderaan.  That's
how we intercepted those doctors...

GENERAL (to Han)
Get them in the ships... We're on our way.  (to Datos)  Send the code signal.

173.  DETENTION CELL - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

General Vader and Valorum watch as a medic revives Starkiller, who has been
strapped to an upright slab, protected by cutter-rays.

MEDIC
He's coming round.

The medic backs away, and throws the switch which activates the cutters.  A
blue glow surrounds Starkiller as he wakes up and sees Vader and Valorum.

VADER
For all the myths and the trouble, you don't seem like much...

He laughs and leaves Valorum alone in the room with the young Jedi.  Valorum
appears sad and frustrated at the capture of the noble warrior.  They stare at
one another for a few moments.

VALORUM
You were insane to come here.  The security on this... this thing is
impossible.  Why?....For her?  I can't believe your loyalty is that strong.
You're a great warrior... but you're a greater fool.  This is a place for
androids, no codes, no honor.  Our ways are useless here.  Why couldn't you
have stayed away?

He storms out of the cell.  Starkiller struggles to free himself.

174.  SLUM DWELLING - GORDON SPACEPORT - AQUILAE

The young partisan, Occo, listens to a small transmitter in a secret closet
behind the main room in a slum dwelling.  He jumps up and runs into the main
room, where Quist and several other men are sitting around a table covered
with maps and plans.

OCCO
It's Datos.  We've got the go ahead.

Everyone cheers and starts hugging and slapping each other on the back.
Finally, they settle down.

QUIST
Go to your organizations.  (to Occo)  What's the code time?

OCCO
Zero three thirty...

QUIST
May the force of others be with you.

The men solemnly shake hands and leave the room.

175.  GOVERNOR'S OFFICE - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Starkiller stands on a small platform before Governor Hoedaack and the High
Consul.  His hands are held behind his back by electric bonds.

GOVERNOR
.... And I'm sure the emperor will enjoy your execution.  I only regret I
won't be there myself.  This should end the Jedi myth once and for all.  Take
him to Alderaan.

Valorum steps forward with a squad of stormtroopers and escorts the prisoner
away.  Vader and the governor seem very pleased with themselves.  Valorum
looks back in disgust.

176.  CONTROL CENTER - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

In the large central control room, two officers sit above a row of monitors
and giant read-outs.

FIRST OFFICER
Look!  That whole sector just went dead.  We're losing contact with the
surface.  Use the IF link and find out what's going on.

177.  DOCKING AREA - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Valorum halts the squad guarding Starkiller on an observation deck overlooking
a starship docking port.  Valorum reports to the officer in charge.

VALORUM
Where is the ship?

OFFICER
It's on its way in.  It will just be a few minutes.

Valorum returns to his squad and watches the large starship slowly move into
the docking area.  He glances at Starkiller, who stands defiant, ready to meet
his fate.

Valorum continues to study Starkiller.  The young Jedi returns his gaze.
Slowly, the spacecraft locks onto the docking port with a loud jolt.  The
troops snap to attention, but Valorum grabs two laserswords and in one swift
move, switches off Starkiller's bonds and tosses him one of the laserswords.
Starkiller assumes a defensive stance, as the troops realize what has happened
and draw their swords.

VALORUM
This way!

The two warriors fight their way through a side exit.  The door slides closed
behind them, and Valorum throws the lock, trapping the troops on the
observation platform.  They race down the hallway and stop at an intersection.

VALORUM
This way!  We can get a starship and be out of here before they've
discovered...

STARKILLER
I'm not leaving without the princess.

VALORUM
It's impossible; there are traps everywhere... You're mad!

Starkiller just grins and runs down the passageway leading to the detention
area.  Valorum rushes and catches up.  An alarm signal wails through the
hallways.

178.  WOOKEE STARSHIPS - SPACE

The general leads three squads, of three starships each toward the glowing
planet of Aquilae.

GENERAL
There she is.  Activate your deflection shields.

179.  DETENTION AREA - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Valorum talks with the Captain of the Guard.  He gestures wildly, like
something important had happened.  Four troops run into the central detention
area leading the bound Princess Leia.  The Captain of the Guard salutes
Valorum, and the Sith knight, followed by the four troops and Leia, leave the
main area.

180.  DETENTION HALLWAY - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Starkiller appears boldly at the end of the hallway, facing Valorum and the
troops.

VALORUM
Get him!

The troops rush for Starkiller, swords drawn.  They are no match for the
skilled Jedi.  He makes short work of them, as Valorum frees the princess.
The trio then run into another hallway.  The princess embraces Starkiller.

VALORUM
We only have a few seconds before they find us.  All of these hallways are
sealable...

Starkiller spots a small garbage chute on the corridor wall.  He goes and
looks into it.

STARKILLER
Is this pressurized?

Valorum nods yes, and they lift the princess into the chute and quickly
follow.

181.  GARBAGE CHUTE - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The trio slides through a series of chutes, until they end up in a large room
full of garbage.  Starkiller spots a doorway and struggles to get it open.

VALORUM
They're power sealed...We'll have to find another way, or some way to shut the
power off...

They search the smooth-walled room for another exit.

182.  GOVERNOR'S QUARTERS - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Governor Hoedaack watches General Vader as he supervises the hunt for
Starkiller and Valorum.  They watch troops move through the detention area via
TV monitors.  Seekers buzz through the hallways.  The general gets a report
from an officer on another monitor.

OFFICER
We've lost contact with the surface.  There is a good probability of an
uprising.  Even the IF links are out.

GENERAL
Use a substandard relay and put all units on alert.

The officer disappears from the monitor and is replaced with the Captain of
the Guard.

CAPTAIN
All sections D through P-12 are clear.  We have reason to suspect they escaped
through the disposal system.  We are checking....(he is interrupted by an
excited trooper who tells him something)....We've found them in Receptacle B-
29.  You should....

A red light flashes on one of the other monitors.

GENERAL
Hold on...

A controller appears on the second monitor.

CONTROLLER
Starships approaching, three squads.  Imperial design, but no clearance...

GENERAL
Full alert.  Battle stations....

The general turns back to the Captain of the Guards.

CAPTAIN
You should have them on your screen.

Alarms sound throughout the fortress.  Lights flash a warning.

182.  [obviously an oversight - second 182] GARBAGE RECEPTACLE - SPACE
FORTRESS - AQUILAE

A floodlight switches on, revealing Valorum and Starkiller attempting to cut
open the door.  The princess stands up and stares into the floodlight.
Vader's voice comes over an intercom.

VADER
I'm afraid I have no more time to deal with you.  A senseless and futile
attack by your friends has forced me to take a rather unpleasant course of
action.  Your execution will have to be expedited.

The intercom clicks off, and a loud rumbling begins to shake the room.  With a
loud shriek, the princess points to the far wall; which starts to move toward
the trio.  The situation looks desperate.

183.  SPACE - WOOKEE STARSHIPS - AQUILAE

Laserfire from the space fortress creates a wall of death, which the three
squadrons of Wookee starships miraculously emerge through undamaged.  The
general barks orders to the Wookee craft, and Chewbacca and his squadron break
off and start an attack dive.  Laser fire from Chewbacca's brightly colored
ship hits one of the prime power terminals on the fortress surface.  It
explodes, creating weird electric arcs, as it goes.

Han and the general also concentrate fire on the distinctive black power
terminals.  Two more are destroyed in an arcing spectacle.  A chain reaction
is set off, creating a series of explosions leaping across the surface of the
fortress from power terminal to power terminal.

184.  GARBAGE RECEPTACLE - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The shock of the explosion can be felt over the rumbling of the trash masher.
The wall has moved within a few yards of squashing Valorum, Starkiller and the
princess.  They are still frantically trying to somehow stop the relentless
wall, to no avail.  The lights blink off, then on again, and the moving wall
rumbles to a halt.  Leia breathes a sigh of relief.

STARKILLER
They must have knocked the power out.

Valorum runs over to the door, and kicks it open.  They rush out of the would-
be death trap.

185.  SPACE - WOOKEE STARSHIPS - AQUILAE

One of the Wookee starships is caught in a crossfire and disappears in a cloud
of smoke.  Another ship for some unknown reason dives headlong into the
surface of the fortress, creating a huge explosion.

186.  MAIN HALLWAY - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Starkiller, Valorum, and the princess are thrown to a hallway floor by the
explosion.  They get up and start down the hallway again.  A voice calls out
from a connecting corridor.

ARTWO
Hey!  Over here.

The trio turns and see little Artwo standing at the other end of the corridor.

He waves his claw arm at them, and wobbles toward them.

ARTWO
The power core has exceeded the normal stress quotient by point eight.  The
magnetic fusion pods have evaporated.  There appears to be an immediate
danger.

VALORUM
There is a lifepod station at the other end of this sector... Hurry.

The group, followed by Artwo, make a dash for the lifepod, but are knocked to
the ground by another explosion, which rocks the hallway.  A hole is ripped in
one wall, sucking debris into space.  Everyone holds on to wall fixtures for
dear life.

187.  GOVERNOR'S QUARTERS - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

Aides and officers rush through the office, as Vader tries to keep things
under control.  Governor Hoedaack remains calm, watching the progress of the
battle.  Vader turns to the governor.

VADER
They've pinpointed every terminal.  It's impossible.  What are they?  Where
did they come from?  An electromagnetic transfer has started....There's no
stopping it...

GOVERNOR
Continue the fight...

VADER
We've already lost control of the planet.  We must abandon ship while there is
still time...Conditions are much worse than...

GOVERNOR
Continue the fight...This fortress is invincible.  I will not give up.

A giant explosion sweeps through the office.

188.  SPACE - WOOKEE STARSHIPS

The tiny starships race the chain reaction explosions across the surface of
the fortress.  Laserfire is everywhere.  one of the starships skimming across
the surface, lags behind and is caught in an explosion and disappears.

GENERAL
Han!  Get everyone out of there.  The whole thing's going to go....Return to
Gordon... Get them out.

Han relays the order to the Wookees, and then starships pull away from the
crippled fortress.

189.  MAIN HALLWAY - SPACE FORTRESS - AQUILAE

The group has made its way past the hole in the wall and is climbing into the
lifepods.  Starkiller helps the princess into one, while Valorum and Artwo get
into the other.  Warning sirens scream throughout the hallways.  Three troops
run toward the lifepods, firing laserpistols.  Valorum returns the fire,
stopping the oncoming troops.  Hatches are closed, and the lifepods eject into
space.

190.  LIFEPODS - SPACE - YAVIN ORBIT

The two lifepods drift toward the calm of the planet's surface.  Starkiller
and the princess embrace, and he kisses her tenderly.  They watch the ominous
fortress grow smaller and smaller as they drift away.  Suddenly, a great flash
replaces the fortress and rubble streaks past the lifepods.  Several giant
explosions follow, then there is only a smoke cloud where the mighty fortress
once orbited Aquilae.

191.  THRONE ROOM - PALACE OF LITE - AQUILAE

Queen Leia, in all her grandeur, sits on the magnificent throne of Aquilae.
Starkiller and the general stand to her right.  Several old advisors stand to
her left.  Han presents Chewbacca and a delegation of Wookees with a treaty,
gifts, and a medal of honor.  They bow and exit.  Han moves to one side of the
crowded court.  Valorum stands next to him.  They watch as the two robots,
Artwo and Threepio, approach the queen, and bow.

QUEEN
Your service to Aquilae is greatly appreciated.  You are designated class A-4,
and will serve Annikin Starkiller, the new Lord Protector of Aquilae.  Rise!

The robots rise and exit through the long entrance hall to the throne.  The
queen turns and smiles at Starkiller and the general.  The general and
Starkiller salute their new queen.

FADE OUT

END CREDITS

