Total Recall

Screen Story and Screenplay

by

Ronald Shusett and Dan O'Bannon

Fifth Revision

by

Ronald Shusett and Steven Pressfield

"TOTAL RECALL"

FADE IN:

1	EXT. DESERT - DAY

All we can see, filling the entire frame is a flame-orange sky...almost  
like the sky from the burning of Atlanta in "Gone with the Wind".

SUPERIMPOSE: Presenter credit.

PAN DOWN lower and lower until we see the terrain below... the desert.  
There is no vegetation whatever, just sand and odd-shaped rock 
formations. The air  is filled with red dust, which alternately 
obscures and then reveals the  image. CAMERA MOVES FORWARD optically - 
enlarging the film grain in the process.

 SLOW DISOLVE

OPENING CREDITS BEGIN.

ANOTHER SHOT of a barren landscape, once more with bizarre rocks. Dust.  
Sound of wind. CAMERA MOVES FORWARD again. DISSOLVE.

ANOTHER LANDSCAPE, but this time, in the distance are some enormous  
plastic domes. Sunlight striking them and reflect- ing causes brilliant 
rainbows.  CAMERA optically tracks toward the dome, seen in 
tantalizingly indistinct  fashion through the red dust. DISSOLVE...

ANOTHER ANGLE, and, in the distance, on the horizon of the arid 
landscape  is a huge SPHINX-LIKE STRUCTURE. (It is reminiscent of the 
Egyptian sphinx,  but both body and face, though gargoyle-like, are 
different in design.) There are  some large pyramids not far from the 
sphinx. CAMERA MOVES optically FORWARD.  DISSOLVE.

CAMERA is much closer to the sphinx and is directly in front. It moves 
(combination of zoom and optical printer move) towards the eyes, which  
appear to be red gems.

As CAMERA APPROACHES one of the eyes, it appears to be stained red 
glass,  as in a temple. Suddenly there is a terrific explosion and the 
glass shatters  into millions of fragments which hurtle toward the 
camera...

 2	INT. CATACOMB BELOW "SPHINX" - DAY

A MAN wearing a LIGHTWEIGHT THERMAL SUIT is RUNNING THROUGH THIS  
LABYRINTH of TUNNELS. The GROUND TREMBLES under him, as if in an 
earthquake. We cannot  clearly make out his face, especially since he 
wears some kind of BREATHING  APPARATUS over a portion of it.

The surface of the tunnel's "walls" is curious; the walls are, again,  
bright reddish orange, and a composite of two different substances:  
rough-textured, clay-like material and red quartz, which glistens like 
crystal.

The man throws a backward glance over his shoulder, fear- fully, as he  
runs. His HANDS are SPLATTERED with BLOOD. Because of this, the RED 
GLOW, the air  of FEAR to the man, and the GROUND HEAVING and BUCKLING, 
there is almost a  SATANIC suggestion to the scene.

Suddenly, up AHEAD of the man, there appears a BRILLIANT WHITE LIGHT. 
He  SEES IT, and runs even faster towards it.

We are ALMOST UP TO THE LIGHT, and we SEE HANDS REACHING OUT OF THE 
LIGHT  TOWARDS US... that seem to beckon him to SAFETY.

ABRUPTLY, the ENTIRE SCREEN GOES RED, BUT IN REVERSE NEGATIVE; with  
YELLOW LAYOVERS. (So that all the images we see -- ENTIRE FRAME -- are 
small  YELLOW AREAS diffused on a RED BACKGROUND.) It is much like 
looking at a tableau  made out of molten lava.

SUPERIMPOSE MAIN TITLE:

TOTAL RECALL

HOLD.

DISSOLVE TO:

 3	INT. BEDROOM IN SMALL APARTMENT - MORNING

DOUGLAS QUAIL and his wife KRISTEN, are asleep in bed.

Gradually the room lights BRIGHTEN. The CLOCK CHIMES and begins 
SPEAKING  in a soft, feminine voice.

CLOCK (sweetly) Tick, tock, seven o'clock. Time to rise and open your  
eyes.

They don't budge. Shortly, the clock CHIMES again.

CLOCK (continuing) Tick, tock, seven-oh-one. Time to get up, the day 
had  begun.

Quail's wife stirs. Maddeningly, the clock CHIMES a third time.

CLOCK (continuing) Tick, tock --

Quail reaches out and shuts the clock off. Then he sits up in bed.

He swings his legs out from under the covers and sits on the edge of 
the  bed. He puts on his glasses and sits, lost in thought.

He is a good-looking but conventional man in his early thirties. He 
seems  rather in awe of his wife, who is attractive and rather off-hand 
towards him.  Kirsten pulls on her robe, lights a cigarette, sits 
fishing for her  slippers.

QUAIL I dreamed about Mars again... it was bizarre, yet is was so 
real...

KIRSTEN (casual) It's your time of the month again.

Quail looks at her quizzically.

KIRSTEN (continuing; world-weary air) At least once a month. Douglas  
Quail's obsession. For twelve years you've been talking about Mars.

QUAIL People do go to Mars, you know.

KIRSTEN That's right, Douglas. But not you. Not us.

Quail looks crestfallen.

KIRSTEN (continuing; disdainful) As it is, we can barely scrape by on  
your lousy ten thousand a week.

She leaves the room. He meditates on what she said, depressed.

 4	INT. KITCHENETTE - MORNING

Quail and Kirsten sit at a small table, eating breakfast. On the WALL 
is projected the front page of a NEWSPAPER.

Drinking his coffee, Quail studies the wall with the air of a man who 
had  his "node stuck in a newspaper," ignoring his wife.

The newspaper headline reads: "RIOTING ON MARS OVER WATER TAX."

His wife is reading a different article: "Four Women Rape Man in Park."

KIRSTEN (mumbling) What do they expect ... the way men dress these days  
... then they scream rape.

Quail is absorbed in his own paper and doesn't hear her.

QUAIL You know -- let's really do it.

KIRSTEN Rape men in the park?

QUAIL No. Go to Mars.

KIRSTEN (withering) Go to hell.

QUAIL We can pool our savings and I've got some sick leave coming,  
besides my regular vacation...

KIRSTEN (interrupting; corrects herself) ...more of a half-wit. For a  
start a war could break out there any day ...

She gestures toward the TV screen where Martian police are keeping  
protesters behind a barrier. Some have signs reading "A FREE MARS", 
"DOWN WITH  COHAAGEN", "EARTH - OUT" etc.

QUAIL That's just media talk. They're... (indicating the protesters)  
...just a minority. They're powerless.

KIRSTEN Well, there's a lot of things we need around here before we 
waste  our money on a trip to Mars. We're broke. I'm just a slave 
around this dump.  Now if you were capable of finding a better job....

The kitchen clock chimes and talks.

CLOCK It's now eight. You'll be late!

QUAIL I'll be late!

He jumps up quickly from the table, picks up his coat and briefcase,  
kisses KIRSTEN's perfunctorily offered cheek and leaves.

 4A	EXT. CITY - EARLY MORNING

CAMERA TRACKS with Quail as he walks along the busy modern street 
towards  a subway station. Modern cars (out of focus) pass noiselessly 
between the  camera and Quail. There is a plaintive tune being played 
on violin. Quail pauses  and gives a wad of notes to the aged 
violinist, then walks on briskly.

 5	INT. SUBWAY STATION - EARLY MORNING

Quail enters the station. Everybody must pass through a weapons check  
before proceeding to the platforms.

TWO ARMED GUARDS stand at either side, as commuters pass through an  
electronic beam. On a screen, the entire body of each person is seen in 
X-ray. All  of them are clearly carrying a gun in their inside coat 
pocket.

GUARD No weapon again, Mr. Quail?

QUAIL I keep forgetting, Herb. They frighten me.

GUARD Yeah? Well, it's the law, Mr. Quail. Has been since 1990 they 
tell  me. Tomorrow - ya carry ya gun or ya get reported.

GUARD gestures to his associate. They've obviously been through this 
with  Quail before.

QUAIL Okay. Herb, okay.

Quail walks on to the track area. The train arrives. Signs above each  
approaching car say "CAR FULL", "ROOM FOR 10 PERSONS", etc. Quail goes 
to a carriage  marked "NEW CAR".

 6	INT. URBAN TRANSIT TRAIN - DAY

The doors open and the crowd surges on. Quail grabs a seat. At 
intervals throughout the car are VIDEO MONITORS on which a NEWS 
BROADCAST is  showing.

NEWSCASTER (V.O.) -- more violence today from Mars's strike-torn ore  
colonies --

Everyone ignores the broadcast -- except Quail, who perks instantly at  
the word "Mars."

The NEWSCASTER is a young black man.

NEWSCASTER (continuing) ...but Earth Intelligence Operations Director  
Vilos Cohaagen, clearly worried about the damage to Mars's all 
important  tourist industry was today dismissive of the dissident 
groups....

TV scene switches to a press conference. COHAAGEN, sur- rounded by 
AIDES,  steps in front of a podium packed with news network microphones 
and cameras.  Cohaagen is a striking, intense man with an obvious air 
of power.

COHAAGEN We're dealing with a bunch of extremists and unrepresentative  
lunatics. Mars is a happy and prosperous protectorate of Earth... and 
will remain  so.

The train stops at another station and more people pile on. Quail tries  
to watch the broadcast through the bodies passing in front of him and  
intermittently blocking the image.

REPORTER (V.O.) There have been some criticisms, sir....

COHAAGEN I have no further comment.

The news conference ends and a bright looking young man comes on the  
screen. Quail continues to watch, though not as interested, initially, 
as he was  by the Mars story. Few of the other passengers bother 
looking at the screen.

ANNOUNCER Good morning, commuters. This portion of your trip is brought  
to you by Rekall, Inc. Do you have a dream that never came true? Do you 
aspire -  but only perspire? Has the great adventure passed you by? 
Then come to... REKALL,  where what might have been will have been. For 
the memories of a lifetime...  REKALL.

Quail watches the commercial through to the end, but doesn't seem to 
take  it very seriously. He glances away as a card comes on the screen 
with REKALL's  numbers.

 6B	INT. QUAIL'S OFFICE - DAY

Quail is seated at a computer console in a vast beehive of a room.  
Numerous people are typing information onto the screens. Quail pauses 
in his  typing, thoughtful. He then types in a little more information, 
then pauses  again. On the screen, a sentence types itself...

WHY HAVE YOU STOPPED? REQUEST MORE INFORMATION.

Quail read it and continues.

 9	INT. McCLANE'S OFFICE - REKALL - DAY

Scene opens on a CU of McCLANE, a genial, bubbling, enthus- iastic man.

McCLANE We're all dreamers, Douglas. But here at Rekall, dreams are our  
business.

He presses a button on his desk and the chairs on which they are seated  
appear to be in outer space. Countless stars glitter all around. 
Startlingly, a  comet whizzes by. Quail is amazed. McClane grins and 
presses the button again.  The scene changes to a beautiful underwater 
coral reef. Multi-colored fish  swim around the chairs and desk.

QUAIL But... is the process really that effective? A false memory!?

McCLANE (shaking his head; smiling) We prefer the term "extra- factual  
implant". Your memory will be complete in every way. You will have gone 
to Mars. We

guarantee that.

QUAIL Is it in any way dangerous? I mean, the medical techniques?

McCLANE Not when you deal with qualified operators - like us.

He presses the button again and the normal office returns. Quail looks  
around, impressed.

QUAIL It's just - incredible.

McCLANE And look at our follow-up program!

He puts items on the desk as he talks.

McCLANE (continuing) Space-flight ticket stub... passport... 
vaccination certificates... matchbooks from Martian Nouvelle Cuisine 
Restaurants,  souvenirs, post cards... even names of people you met - 
now back there - who you can  call and discuss your trip with... by the 
way, we plant these things where  you'll come across them at random in 
the future.

QUAIL But... I'll know I hired you. That'll destroy the whole illusion.

McCLANE (smiling; self- satisfied) But you won't remember me, or having  
been here.

QUAIL I won't?

McCLANE Your money back if you do! We've never paid out yet.

Quail slumps backs in his chair, overwhelmed.

McCLANE (continuing) And we have a special this month, for only  two-
hundred thousand dollars more.

At the press of a button, a list appears on the wall...

A14 MILLIONAIRE PLAYBOY A15 SPORTS HERO A16 INDUSTRIAL TYCOON A17  
INTELLIGENCE AGENT

McCLANE (continuing) You can have a new identity for the duration of 
the  trip. Pick one.

Quail's eyes linger on "Intelligence Agent."

QUAIL "Intelligence Agent"... wouldn'tthat be dangerous? I might  
attack....

McCLANE (airily) No. No. You're a retired agent. Mars was your last  
mission and you're never to break your cover. But you'll have got the 
girl, killed  the baddies, and saved the Universe. Not bad, eh?

QUAIL I don't know... about the whole thing... it's all such a fake. I  
won't really have gone. I won't really....

McCLANE (kind but firm) Let's face it, Douglas, you, and millions of  
people like you have no chance of ever getting to Mars and you'd never 
qualify as a  secret agent for EIO. This - REKALL - is the only way to 
achieve your dream.

He gets up and walks around to Quail's chair.

McCLANE (continuing) Think about it, Douglas. Think, too, what a 
terrible  boor a real holiday is. Lost tickets, endless arguments, 
lousy hotels, missed connections, rotten weather... Rekall will supply 
you with perfect, happy

memories.

Quail is thoughtful, willing to be totally convinced.

 9A	INT. QUAIL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Quail is sitting, distracted, in an uncomfortable modern chair. Kirsten  
is watching a near-pornographic film on TV. She casually lights a 
cigarette.

 QUAIL You know that's illegal.

KIRSTEN Yeah? Who's going to report me? You?... wimp....

She watches a torrid love scene on the video.

KIRSTEN (continuing) Screwing around's illegal, too. But just give me  
half a chance...

Quail looks at her with distaste. His expression changes to one of  
resolve.

 10	INT. MEMORY STUDIO - DAY

Quail is stretched out on a plush reclining couch, alongside some  
strange-looking lab equipment, wearing a hospital-type smock. In the 
b.g. hovers a  TECHNICIAN, adjusting some instrumentation (discreet 
banks of computers, etc.) --  that apparently relates to the lab 
equipment next to Quail. The room in a dim,

soothing booth, lit by indirect lighting.

Quail looks a little concerned as he studies all the instrumentation 
next  to him -- as one always does at the dentist's, looking at the 
drills.

The door opens abruptly, in walks a cute-looking LITTLE OLD LADY, 
wearing  a JOGGING SUIT. (A RUTH GORDON-TYPE.)

OLD LADY Hi, I'm Doctor Sophie Lull. Sorry I'm late. (walks toward coat  
closet) I'll be right with you.

She dons a white medical smock that covers her jogging suit, then 
slings  on heavy, lead-lined protective vest.

QUAIL (looking at instrument console) This really going to work?

LULL It the Pope Martian?

Lull's assistant, the TECHNICIAN in b.g., who had been steadily working  
on the instrumentation, now looks over at Lull.

ERNIE (TECHNICIAN) (at machine) Okay -- that's it.

Now, Lull extends a long rubber tube, a hypodermic needle attached to 
it.  Quail eyes it warily. She swabs the back of his hand in 
preparation, notices  his apprehension.

LULL Now, just relax, kid. This ain't gonna hurt. Just a controlled 
drip  of Narkadine. When you're under, I'll just ask ya a few 
questions, nothin'  real personal, just full details of yer private 
life so's we can tailor the wish-fulfillment program to your needs.

She injects the needle into his hand as she speaks, tapes it down.

LULL (continuing) See? Painless. I didn't feel a thing. Hey, you're a  
nice kid... you like a little somethin' extra?

Quail, embarrassed, starting to go under, nods.

LULL (continuing; pleased) Good! Kid -- have I got a girl for you! 
She's  gonna like you. You're good-lookin'. (beat) Gettin' sleepy? (he 
nods) Good.  Now, what's the first thing you think of when you're 
thinkin' about Mars?

QUAIL (wistfully) Well... I'd like to see the Martian Sphinx...

LULL Okay -- you will, Dougle! I want ya to start counting backwards 
from  a hundred for me.

QUAIL (sleepily) One hundred... ninety-nine... ninety-eight...  ninety-
seven... ninety-six... ninety-five....

His voice drops off; his eyes close. Lull studies him, adjusts some  
instruments, then turns to Ernie, glancing briefly at a typed sheet in 
front of her.

LULL Okay, Ernie, the trip to Mars; number sixty-two... and throw in 
that

blonde... We'll give him a real good time.

ERNIE Sixty-two... and... the blonde...

He takes two discs and inserts the first one into a machine.

ERNIE Boy, is this one wild. He won't want to come back.

Ernie inserts the second disk.

LULL Dougie? This Sophie Lull. Can ya hear me?

QUAIL ...Sophie....

LULL Good! ... I'm gonna ask ya a few more questions now. Ya think 
you'll  be able to answer 'em?

QUAIL ...Yes....

LULL Attaboy! To begin with, I wanna ask ya; -- You sex life. How many  
orgasms a week?

 11	INT. McCLANE'S OFFICE - DAY

McClane has several file drawers open and is removing diverse objects 
and  placing them on his desk.

These items apparently are objects Rekall, Inc. intends to "plant" for  
some client of theirs to find (perhaps even Quail) -- as part of his 
fantasy.

While he is putting these things on his desk, the PHONE BUZZES. He  
answers it.

McCLANE Yes?

LULL (V.O.) (filtered; tense) Howie? Listen, you'd better get in here.

McCLANE (not too concerned) Not another schizoid embolism.

LULL (V.O.) (filtered) You'd better get in here.

 12	INT. MEMORY STUDIO - DAY

McClane come quickly in, brushing the swinging door open.

Lull and Ernie look up as he enters. Quail lies on the couch, breathing  
slowly and regularly, his eyes closed. McClane looks queryingly at 
Lull, who  motions him to silence.

LULL (bends over Quail) Quail? Dougie, can you hear me?

QUAIL Yes.

LULL Tell McClane what you told us.

McClane glances sharply at Lull, then turns to Quail.

Quail's eyes open and scan the room. They settle on McClane. These eyes  
have changed: they have become cold and steely. In fact, Quail's entire  
personality seems to have changed -- his face has acquired a flint- 
edged hardness.  He is chillingly menacing.

QUAIL (a deadly voice) All of you in this room are dead.

McCLANE (not quite taking it seriously) What's he talking about?

QUAIL You've broken my cover.

McCLANE What is this?...

McClane's eyes flash angrily at Lull.

LULL The Narkadine cracked a memory cap. Mars -- (she's scared) He's  
really been there.

There is a chilly silence in the room as McClane digests this.

McCLANE Forced suppression?

ERNIE With spontaneous breakthrough.

McCLANE Holy shit.

They stare at Quail as if he's a ticking bomb.

QUAIL (coldly) You've compromised the Sphinx Project. You'll have to be  
silenced.

Now they're all panicked.

McCLANE Wait a minute. Quail --

QUAIL My name isn't Quail.

McCLANE Listen... whoever you are... sir.... (almost pleading) ...This 
is  all an accident. We'll destroy all the records. No one will know. I 
swear it.  Believe me.

QUAIL I believe you, but that won't stop E.T.O. from killing you.

The Rekall people stare at each other in quiet horror.

QUAIL (continuing) Killing you... killing you... killing you....

His voice trails off, his eyes close.

LULL (intensely) He wants a false memory implanted -- of a trip he 
really  took. (pause) Someone at Earth Intelligence Operations erased 
his memory. All  he know was going to Mars meant something special to 
him.

ERNIE What do we do? Graft a false memory pattern over the real memory 
of  the same thing?

LULL (shaking her head) Uh-uh... That could promote a partial  
breakthrough of the real trip.

McCLANE (overlapping) Revive him without any false memory implantation  
and get him out of here.

LULL Why don't we just wipe out the memory of his visit here?

McCLANE (nodding; relieved) Yes. Good. I'll destroy his file and cancel  
his fee. I have a feeling that the longer he doesn't know who he is, 
where he's  been, where he's going and who we are, the better off we'll 
all be. I'm taking  a holiday. A real one.

He leaves. The others stare after him, looking very grim.

 12A	INT. RECEPTION AREA OF REKALL - DAY

A dazed and disoriented Douglas Quail comes out of an inner door and  
walks through the lobby towards the exit door.

An attractive RECEPTIONIST, her bare breasts visible through a clear  
plastic blouse, watches him; she then looks toward McClane who has 
half-opened  the door to view Quail's progress.

 12B	INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Quail travels down. Uncomprehendingly, he looks out at the city.

 12C	INT. BUILDING FOYER - DAY

Quail stumbles through the fairly crowded foyer, oblivious to anything  
around him. A red-headed man may or may not be watching him. He makes a 
phone  call from a pocket phone.

 12D	INT. ROBOT TAXI CAB - AFTERNOON

Scene open on Quail, in the back of the cab; he looks around, slowly  
coming to his senses.

QUAIL Where am I?

DRIVER Travelling south along Third Avenue, passing Fourty-third 
street.

Although the driver's voice is a little mechanical (flat in tone) he is  
filmed from Quail's POV, and it isn't obvious he is anything other than 
an  ordinary cab driver.

QUAIL Where am I going?

DRIVER Thirty-three thirteen "G" Street, Sector "L", Twin Towers,  
Apartment six-thirty- five.

QUAIL How did I get here?

Camera now cuts to a shot in front of the driver. He is a fairly  
human-like robot.

DRIVER I don not understand the question, sir or madam.

QUAIL How did I get into this cab?

DRIVER You stepped into it in the normal manner, sir or madam.

 15	INT. CORRIDOR OF QUAIL'S APARTMENT - DAY

The reception area and hallway leading to the elevators is smart and  
clean, though not lavish. A uniformed and armed DOORMAN is standing by 
the  entrance door.

Filmed from the elevator end of the area, we see the cab pull up and  
Quail alight and enter the building. He nods to the doorman and 
approaches the  elevators. As he reaches them a MAN steps out from 
behind the camera. A 2ND MAN enters  from a door opposite the 
elevators. Quail looks at them and becomes quite  panicky.

1ST AGENT Aren't you the man from Mars?

He takes a modern, lethal gun from his pocket. Quail turns, but the 
other  man is behind him.

2ND AGENT Don't give us a reason to kill you.

Quail looks toward the doorman, who is paying little attention to the  
events. As the two men edge Quail towards the door, he call out...

QUAIL Mr. Zimmer...Mr. Zimmer... help me... they're...

But the doorman turns calmly away.

 16	INT. BASEMENT CAR PARK - DAY

The two men lead Quail past a number of cars to their own vehicle.

QUAIL Where are you taking me?

1ST AGENT You told everyone at Rekall about you trip to Mars. Where you  
went, who you worked for, what you did --

QUAIL But I didn't... Are you telling me... I did go to Mars? I don't  
remember?

1ST AGENT You've remembered too much. The Sphinx Project, for a 
start....

 QUAIL (confused; remembers only fragments) Sphinx?... No, no, I don't,  
I... What about the people at Rekall? I don't recall Rekall but you 
said if they  know what I did? Why don't you ask them? They'll tell you 
I didn't...

1ST AGENT They've been taken care of.

QUAIL What do you mean?

Neither man bothers answering. They arrive at their car and open the 
door  for Quail. He hesitates.

QUAIL (continuing) What are you going to do with me?

1ST AGENT Get in the car.

He slaps Quail hard across the face. Quail is terrified. He is tearful  
with fear.

QUAIL My God! No! You're going to kill me!

He cringes. His hands across his face.

1ST AGENT No one's going to kill you if [you do what you're told.] 
We're  visiting E.I.O. for some new tests. Now get in, or do we start 
playing rough?

QUAIL No! It's not my fault! You can't do it!

They start to force him into the car physically.

Suddenly, Quail stops cringing. the FEAR DISAPPEARS FROM HIS FACE, and 
is

replaced by an odd, thoughtful expression.

QUAIL (continuing) Wait a minute, I remember --

1ST AGENT What, Quail? What do you remember?

QUAIL On Mars... they tried to kill me... And....

QUAIL TRANSFORMS INTO A HIGHLY SKILLED KILLING MACHINE.

In an instant, he karate-chops both agents across the windpipe, and 
they  crumple to the ground.

Quail steps back. He stares at the two bodies, incredulous; then stares  
at his own deadly HANDS. It is as though they belong to someone else.

Then, leaving the two agents sprawled across the alley, he races back  
into the basement door of his building.

 18	INT. QUAIL'S APARTMENT - EVENING

Kirsten is watching another pornographic video when Quail bursts in. He  
is still disoriented.

QUAIL Did you know I've been to Mars?

Kirsten gets up and turns off the movie.

KIRSTEN What! This stupid obsess...

QUAIL (interrupting) I think I've been. I vaguely recall...

KIRSTEN Doug, you've got to forget...

QUAIL (interrupting) Forget? Remembering is the problem I must've been 
to  one of those artificial memory places...

KIRSTEN Oh my God...

QUAIL But something went wrong... something about a real memory... and  
then those men... tried to kill me.

KIRSTEN What men? Doug, you're crazy.

She starts to mix a drink from a well-stocked cabinet.

KIRSTEN (continuing) You're here now. They didn't kill you.

QUAIL No. That's what's so amazing. I killed them. I think...

Kirsten stops pouring her drink and look at him sharply.

KIRSTEN Where? Where are they?

Quail points down with his finger.

KIRSTEN (continuing) Doug! It's something they put into your mind at 
the  memory place. Fantasies.That's their business.

She sips her drink.

KIRSTEN (continuing) You're a computer operator. You're a bore. You're 
a  wimp. You're not a killer.

QUAIL I'm involved somehow with E.I.O. It's true. It's no fantasy.

He walks around the apartment drawing curtains and putting out the  
lights.

KIRSTEN Doug, I want you to see a doctor. Now Alec and Shirley Turnbull  
have a good man. He helped Alec through his breakdown.

QUAIL For fuck's sake, this is no breakdown!

Kirsten is taken aback at his use of language. He strides into the  
bathroom and slams the door. She turns on one lamp, goes to a telephone 
and dials.

 19	INT. BATHROOM - TWILIGHT

Quail takes a washcloth, turns the hot water up full and soaks the 
cloth  under the steaming water. Using it as a compress, he presses it 
against his  face and his neck, to drain off some of the tension.

He turns off the water. Towelling his head dry, he opens the bathroom  
door.

The instant he does this, a blinding white BURST OF LIGHT comes arcing  
into the bathroom, and the back wall crinkles and CHARS into a swatch 
of  blackness.

QUAIL DIVES OUT THE DOOR, just as ANOTHER BOLT incinerates the spot 
where  he was standing.

 20	INT. LIVING ROOM - TWILIGHT

THE ROOM IS IN TOTAL DARKNESS. The only thing visible is the pale  
rectangle of the balcony window, with the curtains drawn over it.

QUAIL and his ASSAILANT cannot be seen -- but they can be HEARD. There 
is  the sound of a SCUFFLE -- the meaty THUD of a FIST CONNECTING WITH 
FLESH --  and a painful GRUNT as someone's breath whooshes out.

The LIGHT COMES ON. Quail is standing with one hand on the lamp, and 
the  other twisting KIRSTEN's arm up behind her back. A pistol lies on 
the floor.  Quail is totally stunned. He releases her arm, shoving her 
away from him, at the  same time scooping up the pistol.

QUAIL My God! Did you say I need a psychiatrist?

KIRSTEN (coolly) I haven't seen you move that fast since I've known 
you.

QUAIL (outraged) How could you do it? After eight years!

KIRSTEN I'm not your wife, Quail.

QUAIL Not my wife! You are out of your mind.

KIRSTEN (indifferent; nursing her arm) It's a false memory implant. I  
never saw you before six weeks ago.

Quail is totally disoriented.

QUAIL Why are you lying like this?

KIRSTEN No, Quail. It's true. You work for E.I.O. So do I.

As she speaks, she walks to a picture on the wall and from behind it  
pulls out a small wallet. She flips it open to show him her E.I.O. 
badge. He looks  down uncomprehendingly at the holographic lettering 
"Earth Intelligence  Organisation".

QUAIL (indicating their surroundings) But why all of this?

KIRSTEN (shrugging) We had to watchdog you...make sure the erasure 
took.  A wife seemed like a good idea.

QUAIL But I remember it! All of it!... Us!

KIRSTEN All implanted.

QUAIL Our friends... my work... eight years.

KIRSTEN The job's real -- you've had is six weeks -- since you got back  
from Mars.

He sits down, holds his hand to his head.

KIRSTEN (continuing) It's all a fabrication, Quail. Everything you 
know.

QUAIL This is crazy! If all my memories are false, who am I? What am I?  
Jesus... it's like I don't exist.

KIRSTEN You exist, all right. (very cold) That's the problem.

A pause as Quail mentally gropes frantically, for what to do next.

QUAIL Why did you try to kill me? Why does E.I.O. want me dead?

KIRSTEN They don't particularly. That was my idea. This assignment was  
boring me to death. The personality they gave you wasn't too thrilling.

QUAIL Well, what did I do on Mars that they have to keep me from 
telling?

 KIRSTEN I've no idea. I just work here.

QUAIL All right... I'm leaving. Don't try and follow me --

KIRSTEN I don't have to follow you. You can't get away from E.I.O. 
Nobody  does.

Quail looks at her as if seeing her for the first time.

QUAIL No wonder you got the role as my bitchy wife -- type casting.

He leaves. Kirsten smiles secretively. She goes to a drawer, opens it 
and  removes a tiny instrument that looks like a TV channel-changer. 
There is a very  small light on the instrument, which begins flashing 
on and off, as the  instrument begins to make BEEPING SOUNDS.

 21	EXT. STREET OUTSIDE QUAIL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Quail walks briskly out onto the street, controlling his paces, trying  
not to look suspicious. After a beat, he heads for the nearest subway 
entrance.

 22	INT. SUBWAY STATION - NIGHT

Now underground, Quail tries to blend in with the other subway people. 
He  heads toward the weapons check.

 23	EXT. STREET SUBWAY ENTRANCE - NIGHT

An OFFICIAL VEHICLE slams to a halt next to the subway entrance and a  
whole load of INTENSE MEN pours out of it.

 24	INT. SUBWAY - NIGHT

Quail now shuffles along in a lineup of people waiting to get through 
the  WEAPONS CHECK. He tries to control his nervousness. He passes. The 
guard smiles  at him, pleased to see he has remembered his gun.

 25	INT. SUBWAY - NIGHT

All the men with guns drawn come pouring down the subway stairs. The  
SUBWAY COPS and WEAPONS CHECK are stunned to see four large men 
brandishing guns push  their way through the weapons check gate without 
seeming to notice them. One  gunman flashes a HOLOGRAPHIC BADGE ENCASED 
IN PLASTIC at them.

The gunman reach the bottom of the stairs and race closer to the subway  
train, which is just departing. The men halt abruptly.

FIRST GUNMAN Fuck it!

The second gunman adjusts a small plug - a radio receiver - in his ear.

SECOND GUNMAN (EARPLUG WEARER) We won't be able to track him again 
until  he comes up above ground!

 26	INT. SUBWAY CAR - NIGHT

Quail sits in the subway car as it barrels through the night, not 
knowing  exactly where he will go. He is confused, distraught. A 
commercial comes onto the  video.

TV AS VOICE OVER Tired? Exhausted? Need a vacation? Don't settle for  
memories, experience the real thing. Daily departures on the space 
shuttle to Mars.  Visit the wonders of....

 27	EXT. SUBWAY STOP - NIGHT

Quail emerges from underground and looks around. The streets are almost  
deserted.

 28	INT. MOVING OFFICAL VEHICLE - NIGHT

THE GUNMEN SIT IN THE OV. The one with the ear plug [suddenly talks.]

EARPLUG WEARER Coming in again. Loud and clear.

He looks down at an illuminated street map built into the car's  
dashboard.

 28A	EXT. SUBWAY STOP - NIGHT

A cab comes into view. Quail quickly hails it and jumps in. Cab moves  
off.

 28B	INT. CAB - NIGHT

Quail is still pondering what to do next. He glances out one window,  
though not at anything in particular. Suddenly, the silence is 
shattered as bullets  rip through the window on the other side. Quail 
ducks to the floor.

 28C	EXT. CAB - NIGHT

A wide shot shows that the cab is being fired on by a man leaning from  
the window of an official patrol vehicle. He is aiming at the tires and 
driver,  rather than directly at Quail.

 28D	INT. CAB - NIGHT

Bullets are still pouring in.

ROBOT DRIVER (unemotionally) You are being fired on, sir or madam, 
please  leave the cab at once.

From the floor, Quail pushes the door handle and rolls out onto the  
street. The pursuing car occupants fail to notice his exit.

 28E	EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

Cars continue, as Quail picks himself up from the gutter and moves off  
down a narrow side street.

 28F	INT. CAB - NIGHT

ROBOT DRIVER [Please....]

Bullets rip into the robot driver's neck, severing the head from the  
body. The head hits the window then bounces back onto the front seat. 
It continues  talking.

ROBOT DRIVER (continuing) ...leave the cab as bullets are hitting the  
vehicle in considerable quantities.

 28G	EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

The taxi mounts the footpath and smashes through the display window of 
a  store. Clothes models are scattered and broken. When the noise 
abates, the  severed head of the robot driver is lying among the 
dummies.

ROBOT DRIVER This company, sir or madam, will institute legal action 
for damages...

 29	EXT. STREET - "END OF THE LINE" HOTEL - NIGHT

Quail emerges from the side street and sees "End of the Line" Hotel. It  
is clean, bland, middle class. He quickly crosses the road and enters.

 29A	INT. "END OF THE LINE" HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

The foyer is brightly lit and empty. Quail approaches the DESK CLERK, 
who  is reading a book. "Dr. No", marked, in flowing script, "from the 
classic  series".

DESK CLERK (without looking up) Help you, sir?

QUAIL (handing over money) A room for the night.

DESK CLERK (reluctantly putting down the book) ID.

QUAIL (handing over money) Here's ten thousand. Forget the ID.

DESK CLERK looks up at him, with interest. His hand hovers over the  
money.

QUAIL (continuing) I have a liaison with a lady... and I'm married...

DESK CLERK I understand, sir. Nothing like a bit on the side, eh? Bit 
of  fugitive flesh. The greatest aphrodisiac is a new body, wouldn't 
you say, sir?

Quail looks at him with distaste but is only anxious to be given the 
key  to his room. He says nothing.

 30	INT. "END OF THE LINE" HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Quail unlocks the door and enters. No sooner does he relock the door 
then  THE PHONE RINGS. He freezes, stares at it for three rings, then 
picks it up.

QUAIL (into receiver) I told you, I don't want to be disturbed.

TELEPHONE VOICE (filtered) If you want to live, don't hand up.

Quail is stunned. He says nothing, but doesn't hang up.

TELEPHONE VOICE (continuing; filtered) They've got you bugged... 
They're  gonna find you. Faster than you can say "Back Rodgers". 
(quickly) And don't  bother shaking down your clothes -- the monitor is 
embedded in your skull.

QUAIL (reeling) Who are you? What the hell is this?

 30A	INT. BAR BASEMENT - NIGHT

The man telephoning Quail is calling from a bar. Occasion- ally people  
pass him on their way to the toilets. He is youngish and conservatively 
dressed.  He speaks rapidly and urgently.

TELEPHONE VOICE Take a wet towel and wrap it around your head. That 
will  deaden the signal. It'll take longer for them to pinpoint you.

 30B	INT QUAIL'S ROOM - NIGHT

QUAIL Why should I trust you?

TELEPHONE VOICE (filtered) There's a real old saying - "Beggars can't 
be choosers". Go and soak your head!

Quail puts the phone down and rushes to the bathroom.

 30B1 INT. PATROL CAR - NIGHT

The earphone wearer and driver are moving in on the signal generated by  
Quail's bug. Suddenly, the small illuminated cross on the dashboard map 
cuts out.

 EARPHONE WEARER Shit!

DRIVER Cut the language, will ya?

EARPHONE WEARER It's gone! Some...malfunction...

Unscientifically, he prod the screen.

DRIVER (world-weary air) Toldya the Martian assembled [stuff don't 
work.]

30B2 INT. QUAIL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Quail rushes back into the room with a wet towel, turban-like, wrapped  
around his head. He rapidly picks up the phone.

QUAIL Keep talking.

TELEPHONE VOICE (filtered) Head over to Skid Row -- to the Lucky Stub  
Pawnshop -- corner of Park Avenue and Fifty-eighth. Tell the man you're 
Mr.  Hotchkiss; you came for your Grecian candlesticks.

QUAIL (infuriated) What do I want with Grecian candlesticks!

 30C	INT. BAR BASEMENT - NIGHT

The man on the phone looks around anxiously.

TELEPHONE VOICE Just do it! This is no time for small talk.

QUAIL (V.O.) (filtered; not quite convinced) How did you know where to  
find me?

TELEPHONE VOICE I've been tailing you since you get back from Mars.

 30D	INT. QUAIL'S ROOM - NIGHT

QUAIL You're E.I.O. You're on the other team.

TELEPHONE VOICE (filtered) I'm E.I.O. But I was your best friend. Scott  
Stevens - we arranged this...

QUAIL (trying to recall) I can't remember - only bits...

TELEPHONE VOICE (filtered; overlapping) I was your fail-safe -- if and  
when the shooting started. Good luck. Look me up if you remember me.

 30E	INT. BAR BASEMENT - NIGHT

Scott Stevens hangs up the phone. He looks around cautiously, then 
walks  a few steps to the mens room.

 30F	INT. MENS ROOM - NIGHT

Scott Stevens walks to the row of troughs and begins to urinate. The 
room  is empty. He hears a noise and looks around. Two EIO men are 
standing there  aiming lethal-looking high-velocity weapons at him. One 
of them is the  red-headed man we've already seen.

1ST MAN (RED-HEADED) Well, look at that. He's really got his hands 
full.

2ND MAN Not so full, so I've heard.

Still urinating, the frustrated Scott Stevens can only look back over 
his

shoulder. Laughing, both men open fire, riddling him with bullets. He  
collapses in an undignified heap, his head in the water at the base of 
the trough.

 31	INT. "END OF THE LINE" CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Quail, with towel around his head, glances up and down the corridor --  
spots a sign that says "FIRE EXIT". He races towards it.

 32	EXT. "END OF THE LINE" FRONT ENTRANCE - NIGHT

The OV slams up in front of the hotel and a carload of MEN tear out of 
it  and barge into the hotel.

 32A	INT. "END OF THE LINE" HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

The startled clerk jumps to his feet as the group of armed men enter  
rapidly.

EARPHONE WEARER Quick. The guy who checked in fifteen minutes ago.

CLERK (nervous) Room...thirty-six.

Most of the armed men instantly head off up the stairs, their weapons 
at  the ready. Clerk watches, astonished.

CLERK (continuing) He was only meeting a lady... Aren't you guys  
overdoing it a bit?

 32B	EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Quail is walking along briskly, still with the towel around his head. A  
few passers-by look at him curiously. He puts his hand together and 
greets  them Indian-style.

 33	EXT. PARK AVENUE - NIGHT - CLOSE ON STREET SIGN

which reads: "PARK AVENUE / 58TH STREET".

PULL BACK to reveal "The Lucky Stub Pawnshop". WINOS lurk on the 
corner.  Park Avenue has deteriorated into a slum.

QUAIL ENTERS FRAME, and approaching the pawnshop, stepping over a BUM 
in  a doorway.

 34	INT. PAWNSHOP - NIGHT

Quail is just entering; an old-fashioned BELL overhead, tripped by the  
door opening, announces his entrance.

At once, an immense FAT MAN emerges from the back room.

PAWNBROKER You wanta camera? I got some good, top-quality ones. You 
want  silk rugs? Handmade last century in Iran...all perfect. You want 
videos? Old  movies... classics...all those Vietnam war ones...real 
quaint stuff... you want...

QUAIL (interrupting; awkwardly) I'm Hotchkiss...I came for 
the...Grecian candlesticks...

The Fat Man studies him warily for a long moment; then he disappears  
through the curtain.

In a brief moment, he emerges again, carrying a small, "makeup-sized"  
case, as well as two large candelabra.

The Pawnbroker puts the case on the counter. Quail looks at the case 
with

curiosity.

QUAIL(continuing) I wonder if you could tell me...

They both look around as someone enters.

PAWNBROKER I trust these will look well in you... mosque.

 35	INT. FLOP HOUSE - NIGHT - CLOSE ON HANDS

Opening up the small case.

PULL BACK to reveal they are Quail's hands. The hotel room he's now in 
is

obviously a different one than the last one we saw him in. The room is  
large but run-down, the walls are peeling, the architecture is much 
older, etc.

Quail examines the contents of the case: there are CREDIT CARDS and 
also  MONEY, several stacks of bills, neatly tied -- some of it the 
conventional  green, but most of it red.

 CLOSE ON RED MONEY

On the face of it is printed: "MARS FEDERAL COLONY".

QUAIL (mutters) Martian money....

Quail thumbs through the money, and whistles softly to himself as he 
sees  how much there is.

Also in the case are: TWO PASSPORTS; a small CASSETTE RECORDER; a  
rolled-up LEATHER POUCH and a spray can of some sort; and a strange 
thing that  looks like a silver mask. He examines the face mask, 
studies BLACK LETTERS WRITTEN  ACROSS IT (which we are not close enough 
to read) and then puts it aside. Another  item now catches his eye: a 
wristwatch. He sees a conspicuous red button on the  side of the watch, 
and PRESSES IT. INSTANTLY, TO HIS SHOCK, QUAIL SEES A MAN  MANIFEST 
HIMSELF HIMSELF OUT OF THIN AIR AND STAND THERE IN THE ROOM A FEW FEET  
AWAY FROM QUAIL: he's an EXACT HOLOGRAPHIC DUPLICATE of Quail -- down 
to the  clothes Quail is wearing now.

The image stands and watches Quail.

QUAIL (continuing) What the hell...?

Quail smiles, presses the red button again. There is a HUMMING SOUND --  
and the man FADES INTO THIN AIR -- like a television set being turned 
off.

Quail looks bemused.

Now he unrolls the leather pouch and looks inside. There he finds what  
look like SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS; a sponge, a long piece of wire doubled 
over, with  some attachments and a tiny METAL HEAD on one end, and some 
tubes of salve.

He turns on the cassette recorder.

The VOICE he hears on the cassette TAPE is HIS OWN!

CASSETTE VOICE (V.O.) (Quail's voice) "Hauser, this is Hauser -- or  
whatever you think your name is now. If you're listening to this, I'm 
talking to  myself. Your memory's been erased and you've got a wet 
towel around your head. (he  does) "The first thing you've got to do is 
get rid of that bug in your head."

 36	INT. HOTEL BATHROOM - NIGHT

The sound of the tape continues as Quail follows instructions - pushing  
the wire up into a bloody portion of his neck, just below the ear.

CASSETTE VOICE (V.O.) The monitoring device is located in your left  
maxillary sinus cavity. Make a small incision in your neck just below 
the left ear,  and insert the wire up into the sinus. The head is self-
guiding. Just shove.

Quail makes a face.

CASSETTE VOICE (V.O.) (continuing) You won't feel a thing. The spray  
cartridge contains a local anesthetic and a blood coagulant. Careful, 
it's my neck,  too.

Holding the wet towel against his neck, Quail slowly withdraws the 
wire.  On the end of it is a tiny, metal bead, the Transmitter.

 37	INT. MOVING OFFICIAL VEHICLE - NIGHT

The man with the ear plug suddenly reacts.

EARPLUG WEARER It's come on again.

DRIVER Where?

The 1st man quickly check the map-grid in the dashboard. A small bright  
'x' is flashing.

EARPLUG WEARER He's in that old flophouse. Plaza Hotel. Central Park  
South.

 37A	INT. HOTEL BEDROOM - NIGHT

Quail is anxious to get rid of the transmitter. He looks around and  
notices a rat trap near a rat hole in the skirting board.

He carefully - avoiding springing the trap - removes the piece of 
cheese  and pushes the transmitter inside. He then throws the cheese 
into the rat  hole.

 38	INT. MOVING OFFICIAL VEHICLE - NIGHT

The car is moving swiftly through the streets.

EARPLUG WEARER Boy, he's really moving around.

A CU of the screen shows the small 'x' moving in circles.

 38A	EXT. HOTEL SIDE ENTRANCE - NIGHT

The car pulls up. Another follows it. Armed men leap out from both. The  
EARPLUG WEARER indicates they should go down an alley at the side of a 
service  door. They advance cautiously, guns at the ready. They see no 
one. The EARPLUG  WEARER indicates another, even narrower, alley 
leading off to one side. Two of  the men sneak cautiously up to it, 
their guns at the ready.

A large rat scurries out from behind overfull garbage bins. Furious, 
they  fire. The bullets rip the bins to shreds, scattering refuse 
everywhere. The rat  is killed. They all stare in disbelief.

EARPLUG WEARER Ya dirty rat!

 40	INT. E.I.O. HEADQUARTERS - MEMORY LAB - NIGHT

OPENING CLOSE on a MONITOR SCREEN slated "HAUSER/QUAIL" followed by a  
serial number and some dates. The slate vanishes, replaced by a scene 
of Quail  -- undergoing some KIND OF MILITARY TRAINING.

PAN to OTHER MONITORS, all depicting Quail in other action scenes -- on  
some kind of mission, driving a car, etc.

TECHNICIANS man the monitors, scrolling through them in fast-forward 
and  fast reverse as if searching files.

The technicians turn as Cohaagen and his aides enter.

COHAAGEN (demands) Anything?

SUPERVISOR We're running every one of his memory tapes for the past  
fifteen years. Nothing yet, sir.

COHAAGEN There must be something -- some place he would go, some friend  
he would run to.

The red-haired E.I.O. man joins them.

RED-HEADED MAN (to Cohaagen; quietly) They lost him.

COHAAGEN Again?!

The red-headed man nods.

COHAAGEN (continuing) Are you sure the original suppression took?

SUPERVISOR Absolutely, sir. He thinks he's Quail, a computer...

COHAAGEN (interrupting) Then how do you explain what he's doing?

SUPERVISOR Just his instincts. He was well trained by E.I.O.... Maybe 
the  memory cap's fractured. Portions of his prior identity could be 
leaking through.

 COHAAGEN (very anxious) He'll remember Mars? The Sphinx Project?

SUPERVISOR Fragments. Nothing more. Nothing he could piece together. I  
did advise terminating him, rather than implanting an identify 
alternative.

COHAAGEN What do you think I am? A barbarian? We're not living in the  
twentieth century!

He looks at the video screen again. An image has flashed onto it of an  
attractive Eurasian girl.

COHAAGEN (continuing) Hold it there.

He studies the picture, which changes to show the same girl from  
different angles.

 42	INT. SPACE PORT - DAY

Passengers are boarding a COMMERCIAL SPACECRAFT. In addition to the  
STEWARDESSES checking their tickets, there are two PLAINCLOTHES MEN 
checking every  passenger. They carry some kind of small, portable 
ELECTRONIC DEVICE that they shine  in the face of each passenger going 
through. (It gives off a BLUE BEAM and  HUMS.)

The passengers are a diverse group - businessmen, officials, government  
people, etc. There is also a large tour group consisting of a 
predominately  middle-aged and determinedly jolly crowd, many of them 
carrying duty-free bags. They  are being marshaled by an harassed TOUR 
ORGANIZER, who is carrying aloft a hand-painted sign... "MARTIAN TOUR 
GROUP".

The last of the passengers board the spacecraft. The chief PLAINCLOTHES  
MAN nods to an official and the door begins to close.

PLAINCLOTHES MAN #1 If he had to travel to Mars with that bunch, I'd be  
sorry for him.

PLAINCLOTHES MAN #2 We couldn't have missed him?

PLAINCLOTHES MAN #1 No way. Let's get a coffee before the next shuttle.

 43	INT. SPACELINER - IN FLIGHT

One of the PASSENGERS -- a middle-aged WOMAN - unbuckles her seat belt  
and heads for the restroom, carrying her handbag, and some clothes on a 
hanger.

 44	INT. LAVATORY - IN FLIGHT

The woman locks the door and turns to the mirror. She opens her bag,  
takes out a spray container, SPRAYS HER FACE with it, and takes out -- 
the SILVER  FACE MASK we saw in Quail's emergency kit.

She holds the mask to her face. There is a SIZZLING NOISE, and SMOKE  
rises from behind the mask.

She lowers the mask. Her face is now that of QUAIL. He tears up a  
passport and drops it down a chute.

He reaches inside his dress, starts to REMOVE his "FALSIES."

CLOSE ON MASK

We can read the BLACK LETTERING written across it now: "LASER FACIAL".

 45	INT. SPACELINER - IN FLIGHT

Quail exits from the lavatory and glances toward the ebullient tour  
crowd. He turns and looks in the other direction and sees a video 
theater  advertising "ROCKY 36" with Sylvester Stallone III, Jnr. He 
isn't too excited, but  heads towards it. He pauses a little when an 
announcement comes over the  intercom.

A LITTLE BELL sounds, followed by INTERCOM STATIC. Quail looks up.

CAPTAIN'S VOICE (V.O.) Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll glance out the  
starboard viewports, you'll behold an indeed awesome sight --

Quail goes to a viewport and PEERS, transfixed. He is seeing... at  
last... the object of his obsession.

 46	EXT. SPACELINER - IN ORBIT AROUND MARS

The SPACELINER -- which we have deliberately not seen before this 
moment  for dramatic effect -- banks and turns, suddenly bringing into 
view -- MARS.

AN IMMENSE ORANGE GLOBE -- so close it looks like it's going to fall on  
us. It dwarfs the spaceliner.

CAPTAIN'S VOICE (V.O.) Those long gorges you see, clearly are the  
legendary canals of Mars....

The liner drops toward the surface of Mars. Below: a NETWORK OF  
INTERSECTING LINES crisscross the planet.

CAPTAIN'S VOICE (V.O.) (continuing) Of course, they are not manmade  
canals, but vast natural chasms ...many deeper and larger than the 
Grand Canyon.  Though utterly without moisture now, scientists have 
determined that they were  formed by massive flooding millions of years 
ago.

 47	INT. SPACELINER

Quail stares, his brow furrowing as if with some deep hidden memory he  
can't quite recall.

CAPTAIN'S VOICE (V.O.) (continuing) Surface temperatures at the Martian  
equator is minus one-hundred and twenty degrees Centigrade -- in 
winter.  Fortunately, this time of year it's slightly more seasonable: 
Sixty degrees,  Fahrenheit, outside the domes. (beat) Please remember, 
folks, that outside the domes  you'll need to carry your own personal 
oxygen supply at all times. The  atmosphere of Mars is almost a vacuum. 
Thank you for flying with Interstellar and we  hope your stay will be a 
pleasant one.

 48	EXT. MARS - OUTER SPACE

CAMERA follows the spaceliner until the ENTIRE FRAME is filled with the 
RED-ORANGE sands of MARS.

 49	EXT. MARTIAN DESERT - DAY

An endless expanse of boulder-studded red sand, under a red-orange sky.

The desert is cut by a ROAD, which snakes across the rocky terrain. 
Some  surface TRAFFIC moves along the road (all pressurized vehicles 
since the  atmosphere of Mars is almost a pure vacuum) - including the 
MARSPORT BUS.

PAN WITH THE BUS - TO REVEAL

A CITY UNDER A DOME.

In the midst of the stark, trackless landscape -- it's midday, 
scorching  -- rises a huge weatherbeaten GEODESIC STRUCTURE, its glass 
surface scarred by  sandstorm damage. Its feeling is like an old 
Western, when Clint Eastwood rides  into Tombstone -- the raw, 
forbidding vistas, with a tough town carved out of  the wilderness.

 50	INT. MARSPORT - DAY

Quail is looking out at the desolate landscape. The TOUR ORGANISER, an  
amiable middle-aged man sits beside him. It is possible he is not a 
married man.

QUAIL It's no Garden of Eden.

TOUR ORGANISER No. Quite a bit to see, though. The canyons, the old  
Sphinx...

QUAIL What do you know about that?

TOUR ORANISER Not much, really. Millions of years old. Bit like the one  
that used to be in Egypt, you know...

QUAIL Yeah. Got destroyed in the Arab wars... What about this  
independence movement?

TOUR ORGANISER (dismissive) Not worth worrying about. Mostly 
descendants  of the original colonists from Earth. Now they want self-
rule so they can sell  us all the minerals... I don't think we've met. 
You with our group? Takes me a  while to know everyone.

QUAIL Sure. Douglas Quail.

TOUR ORGANISER Richard Toltz. (they shake hands) Well, Doug, I hope 
we'll  see a lot more of each other.

 55	EXT. CITY (UNDER THE DOOM) - DAY

The bus pulls up outside a modern tourist hotel. The buildings  
surrounding it have a much more improvised, temporary look. Most are 
pre-fabricated  structures. The streets are crowded and there is a 
"frontier-town" atmosphere. Stalls  sell fruit and vegetables, also 
water and air containers.

A lot of greenery is evident - this is to absorb CO2 and emit oxygen,  
thus helping with the air supply under the dome.

Some small, ragged boys look at QUAIL as he looks around before going  
inside the hotel. Suddenly, one of them throws a small sack at him. It 
hits his  chest and leaves a yellow stain. The hotel DOORMAN chases the 
boys away....

BOY Smogpsucker!

From the other side of the street, a gang of URCHINS with a harmonica  
start singing some kind of defiant PATRIOTIC SONG.

DOORMAN You know how it is, sir. Some of these red-asses are a bit  
prejudiced.

QUAIL Prejudiced? Against what?

DOORMAN Earthmen.

The street song has swelled, adult MINERS and CITIZENS joining the  
belligerent chorus.

QUAIL What are they singing?

DOORMAN The Martian National Anthem.

Quail tips the doorman, enter the hotel.

 57	INT. MARS HILTON LOBBY - DAY

Quail passes several kiosks -- a magazine stand, currency exchange,  
clothing store, shoeshine stand. A SHOESHINE BOY looks up at Quail.

Quail walks past, enters the main lobby. The atrium entryway is  
absolutely fabulous; a complete contrast to the dirty, Casbah-like 
streets.  AFFLUENT-LOOKING PEOPLE in spotless linen fill the lobby.

Quail stops to examine a large ROTATING DISPLAY sitting on a table in 
the  middle of the lobby. It is a stand-up model of a SPHINX. Across 
the top is  written "THE FIRST WONDER OF MARS". A recorded VOICE 
repeats a canned speech --

CANNED VOICE "...the Martian Sphinx... only evidence of non-human  
civilization ever discovered ...age estimated at over eighteen million 
years...

 CLOSE - SHOESHINE BOY

He stares at Quail.

BACK TO SCENE

Quail approaches the Registration Desk.

CLERK Nice to have you back with us, Mr. Hauser.

Quail is startled to be recognized -- particularly by this name. He 
tries  to stay casual.

QUAIL Nice to be back. (pick up pen) I'm flattered you remember me.

CLERK Part of my job, sir.

QUAIL (starts to sign; hesitates) Do you remember my first name, too?

CLERK Charles. Charles Hauser, right?

QUAIL I'm impressed. (now he signs) Listen. I need transportation to  
the... uh... the Sphinx. Can you arrange it for me?

CLERK I'm sorry, sir. But Earth government has sealed off the 
excavation  site completely. No one but survey teams and archaeologists 
are allowed closer  than twenty miles.

The Clerk taps a few keys on a computer.

CLERK Oh... (spots something on the computer) Do you want the item you  
left with us?

QUAIL What item? Oh... yes, please.

The Clerk turns to the safe, retrieves an envelope. He hands it -- and 
an

ELECTRONIC ROOM KEY -- to Quail.

 58	P.O.V. - THROUGH BINOCULARS - THE SPHINX

Far in the distance, a dusty red structure squats amid barren dunes. We  
see vehicles, scaffolding, a fortified perimeter.

 59	INT. QUAIL'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Quail stands at the window, looking through binoculars. He lowers them  
irritably, tosses them on the bed.

Quail tugs the envelope from his pocket, tears it open. Inside is a  
single slip of paper, on which is written in longhand:

"MELINA NOEL Last Chance Air Station Kilometer 61 Gird Square T9"

 60	EXT. MARS HILTON - SUNSET

It is now sunset on Mars and it's literally of inearthlybeauty. The sun  
is bold and blood red; the foggy, drip- ping glass of the Dome tints 
the light  into strange colors.

Quail emerges from the hotel, properly attired now in a white tropical  
suit, and starts for the taxi stand.

Behind him, also emerging from the hotel, is the Shoeshine Boy. He 
keeps  out of sight -- but is definitely tailing Quail.

As Quail nears the first solar-powered taxi in line, he is approached 
by  an amiable-looking CALYPSO GUY wearing a West Indian shirt and 
bright straw  hat.

CALYPSO GUY (BENNIE) Need a cab, boss mon?

Quail hesitates, unsure of the protocol.

BENNIE (continuing) Mine's right around the corner.

QUAIL (indicating first cab in line) That one's closer.

BENNIE But I out-hustle him, right?

QUAIL (smiling) Right.

TWO CABBIES exchange curses as Quail, wary, follows the Calypso Guy  
around a corner, climbs into the small solar car.

 62	EXT. CITY DOME - AIR LOCK - SUNSET

An AIR LOCK whooshes open underneath a Checker Cab sign. Bennie and 
Quail  emerge in the solar-powered car -- set off into the desert.

 63	EXT. DESERT - SUNSET

The taxi traverses the same type desert that Quail crossed a few hours  
ago. Only now is looks completely different. The late light tints 
everything in  pastel shades, Quail is awed by the grandeur of the 
Lawrence-of-Arabia-like  setting.

 68	EXT. DESERT TRUCK STOP - NIGHT

Quail and Bennie's taxi approaches a brightly-lit oasis in the middle 
of  the desert. There's a cafe, repair facilities and a huge parking 
lot -- all  under a garish neon sign: "LAST CHANCE AIR STATION AND 
ASLOON - EAT HERE AND GET  GAS".

Quail and Bennie's taxi pulls in and parks. In the lot is a collection 
of  strange and colorful vehicles: huge ore trucks that pull eight 
trailers, mountain

prospecting jeeps, Grapes-of-Wrath jalopies. Quail and Bennie 
disembark,  wear- ing breathing masks, and enter the main building.

 69	INT. LAST CHANCE AIR STATION - NIGHT  The joint is a combination 
saloon/cathouse/casino. There are slot  machines, HOOKERS, MINERS and 
HOMESTEADERS; it is like a Nevada brothel -- packed  with wild and 
woolly indi- vidualists, the equivalent of Old West trappers,  
prospectors and cowboys -- but with a space-age look.

Quail and Bennie elbow their way to the bar. Fragments of conversation  
are overheard.

MINER #1 ...if that intergalactic little Napoleon thinks I'm sellin' 
and  clearin' outta here, he can think again!

MINER #2 (with a laugh) ...watcha gonna do when he cuts off the air,  
Luke?

MINER #3 ...you'll be breathin' red dust and shittin' bricks.

Bennie and Quail pass another group.

MINER #4 ...my wife ain't goin' on one of those space shuttles... she  
hates flyin'...

MINER #5 ...aw, come on... flyin's safer'n crossin' the road...

MINER #6 ...yeah, there ain't been a real disaster since that collision  
off Phobos, nigh on twenty years ago...

MINER #4 (alarmed) ...well, that killed twelve thousand...

QUAIL What is this, Bennie... Tombstone?

BENNIE Sorta. Bunch of miners out here got their own claims, from way  
back. Cohaagen's buyin' em all up, says he's gonna cut off the air an' 
water if  they won't sell...

Quail attracts the attention of the BARTENDER.

QUAIL I'm looking for Melina Noel.

BARTENDER You've found her.

His nod indicates an area behind Quail. He turns to see an attractive  
waitress placing drinks on tables. She doesn't notice Quail. He walks 
toward her  through the crowd. Bennie watches, then tactfully slips 
away.

MELINA turns to return to the bar and runs straight into Quail. She  
stops, obviously astonished to see him.

MELINA You bastard!

Almost in tears, she pushes her way through the crowd to a billiard 
room,  which is separated from the main bar by swinging doors.

There are no occupants and it is almost in darkness. Quail, bewildered,  
follows her. Inside the billiard room he turns on the lights which 
illuminates  the area of the table.

(NOTE: As Quail and Melina speak, the activity in the outside bar can 
be  seen above the swinging doors.)

Melina is still fighting back tears. Quail stops in front of her, 
unsure  about what to do. He has no recollection of how well he might 
have known this  woman.

Suddenly, she slaps him hard across the face.

MELINA (quietly) You bastard...

He rubs his painful cheek.

MELINA (continuing) That's new -- the innocent look. (bitter sarcasm) 
You  didn't have that one before. (beat) Well?

Quail is speechless.

QUAIL Well, uh... I...

MELINA All right, I'll say it for you.

He looks relieved (but tries to cover).

MELINA (continuing) Don't worry. I got the note. You discharged your  
obligation.

QUAIL What note?

MELINA Oh, the usual one. "Must return immediately to Earth... the wife  
needs me..."

QUAIL I don't have a wife. Well, I do - but not a real wife. (getting  
desperate) Hell... look... someone else sent that note. Someone who --

MELINA What are you here for?!

QUAIL For you! I don't even know why --

Melina bursts into tears. Quail rather tentatively puts his arms around  
her. She welcomes this at first, but then pushes him away.

QUAIL (continuing) Whoever I was, I must have been a helluva guy.

MELINA "Whoever you were"???

QUAIL Listen. I've for to tell you something. I beg you to believe 
me...  help me --

All Melina's suspicions come rushing back.

QUAIL (continuing) Something happened to my mind. Memory suppression,  
false implant, I don't know what --

Melina backs off. Quail grows more desperate.

QUAIL (continuing) What I'm saying is... I don't remember you. I don't  
remember us. I don't remember me --

Melina's expression grows dead hard.

MELINA [And I thought...]

QUAIL Who is us?

MELINA (ignoring the question) Memory erasure is what they use on 
agents.  Go away.

QUAIL Wait... I was an agent -- I'm not now -- just tell me who I am! 
How  did we know each other? Why are they trying to kill me?!

He takes a step toward her, nearly frantic.

MELINA I'm not trusting you again.

QUAIL You loved me once, you must have --

MELINA That you was a liar. Who you are now I don't even know.

QUAIL Please, Melina --

MELINA (tears starting) Get out!

QUAIL I need your help --

MELINA (crying quietly) Get out! Get the hell away from me!

Quail gives up; goes through the doors and leaves. Melina slumps her  
shoulder against the table and cries.

 77	INT. LAST CHANCE AIR STATION GARAGE - NIGHT

Quail enters from the cafe. Bennie is kneeling beside his taxi, 
repairing  a tire. He look up, sees Quail approach.

On his right hand, Bennie has a mechanical device capable of spinning 
360

degrees. He uses it to twirl a lug nut tight on his tire. As Quail  
approaches, Bennie removes the TOOL ATTACHMENT from his HAND, tosses it 
into a kit  beside the taxi.

BENNIE You don't look so good, boss. All over the Universe, women is an  
awful curse.

He opens the door for Quail, beams.

 80	INT. SOLAR-POWERED CAR - NIGHT - MOVING - DESERT BACKGROUND

Quail still broods, Bennie tries to cheer him up.

BENNIE It's a tough planet, boss.

QUAIL Yeah, right.

BENNIE Some guy really screwed her - screwed her up real good. Some  
Earthman. Just hopped on a space shuttle.

Bennie bright tone isn't improving Quail's mood.

QUAIL Listen, Bennie. You're pretty well informed?

BENNIE If that means I know it all, you're right, boss.

QUAIL What do you know about the Sphinx?

BENNIE I don't know nothin'. Not about the Sphinx. That's out of the 
ball  park.

QUAIL I have to get there. Can't you help me?

BENNIE No can do, mon. You want women, cigarettes, red-market money,  
booze, even air or water... Bennie's your man. But the Sphinx... that's 
E.I.O. --

 80A	INT. CITY UNDER THE DOME - NIGHT

The solar car is moving through the crowd, when suddenly SIRENS 
approach  on a cross street. Bennie brakes and stops. He and Quail 
watch as POLICE  MOTORCYCLES clear a path for a huge, GAS-POWERED LIMO. 
MINERS on the sidewalks shout  CURSES, OBSCENITIES --

BENNIE Well... look at that one, eh?

QUAIL What?

BENNIE Big cheese in town. Big smelly cheese.

QUAIL Cohaagen? But isn't he often here?

BENNIE No way. That cat just cheat the Martian workers without ever  
leavin' his place in Beverly Hills. Somethin' must be cookin'.

Quail keeps his face in shadow and watches Cohaagen with curiosity as 
he  passes. Cohaagen is lit up briefly by a street lamp. His face makes 
an impression  on Quail, who perhaps faintly remembers him in the past.

 82	INT. QUAIL'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Quail enters, turns on the lights, locks the door. He checks all the  
rooms. Then he crosses to the dresser, studies himself in the mirror. 
He looks  haggard.  Quail opens a drawer, takes out his "emergency 
case," sets it on top and  opens it. He removes a shoulder holster and 
pistol, sets them aside. He takes  out a tape recorder.

He sets the recorder down gingerly, as if somewhere in there were  
contained the answers to all his questions. He's just about to activate 
it, when he  hears a KNOCK at the door.

Quail freezes. Another KNOCK.

VOICE (O.S.) (through door) Mr. Hauser...

QUAIL Who is it?

VOICE (O.S.) Mr. Hauser, I want to talk to you... about Douglas Quail.

Quail ditches the recorder and the "emergency case" into the drawer --  
everything except the PISTOL.

Quail approaches the door very cautiously (from the side -- out of the  
line of fire).

QUAIL (tensely) Who are you?

VOICE (O.S.) My name is George Edgemar. I work for Rekall, 
Incorporated.

QUAIL (stunned; incredulous) Rekall??

VOICE (O.S.) Yes. It's difficult to explain... Could you open the door,  
please? I'm not armed.

Quail opens it carefully, his gun at the ready, but out of view of the  
person at the door.

A dignified-looking GENTLEMAN stands there, calm and pleasant, wearing 
an

Earth-style business suit.

EDGEMAR Hello, Mr. Quail. May I come in? I won't be offended if you  
prefer to keep the gun you're holding trained on me.

He can't see the gun, but somehow knows.

QUAIL All right... come in.

Quail does keep his gun trained on the man. The man enters, holding in  
his outstretched hand -- a business card.

EDGEMAR My card, Mr. Quail.

Quail frisks him, then takes the card, glances at it.

QUAIL Okay -- so you're Doctor George Edgemar of 'Rekall, Inc.' So?

EDGEMAR As I said... this is going to be very difficult -- for both of  
us.

QUAIL I'm listening.

EDGEMAR Mr. Quail... I'm afraid you're not really standing here at this  
moment.

QUAIL Sat that again.

EDGEMAR I said, you're not really here. Neither am I. We're both in the  
Memory Studio -- in the offices of Rekall, Inc. On Earth.

Long pause.

QUAIL Are you trying to tell me that this is all part of some...  
artificially injected fantasy? That I never really left Earth?

EDGEMAR No, not quite. We didn't give you this. You're creating it  
yourself -- (pauses, choosing his words) Remember the option we offered 
you?  Intelligence agent? Something inside you liked that idea, 
fastened on it. What you're experiencing now is a free-form delusion 
that you yourself are  fabricating.

QUAIL What is this shit you're giving me?

EDGEMAR This is not -- shit, Mr. Quail. It's the truth. (beat) I know  
it's very hard for you to accept, but you're having a schizophrenic 
reaction... we  can't snap you out of the Narkadine. You're in a world 
of your own fantasy.

QUAIL Then how the hell can you be in my dream -- if you know it's just 
a  dream?

EDGEMAR I've been artificially implanted -- like the first part of your  
fantasy. I'm actually monitoring your dream at a psychoprobe console. 
This is a  last resort. When somebody gets stuck in their own fantasy, 
we send in someone  after them. A specialist, like myself.

QUAIL I don't believe a word you're saying.

EDGEMAR I was afraid you'd think that. I'm sorry to have to do this, 
but  you really are stuck. (calls out) Doctor Noel, would you come in 
now please?

The door starts to open. Quail pivots and points his gun at the opening  
door.

MELINA walks in, carrying a CLIPBOARD. She looks at Quail with  
professional detachment.

MELINA Yes, Mr. Quail, I'm afraid it's all true.

Quail is staggered.

MELINA (continuing) I tried to break through to you earlier, but you 
just  molded me into your fantasy. Sometimes it takes Dr. Edgemar to 
get through to a  client as tough as you.

QUAIL (wavering) So what's supposed to happen now?

EDGEMAR Just do exactly as we tell you.

QUAIL (stares at him coldly) Somehow that doesn't appeal to me.

MELINA Please, Mr. Quail... try to cooperate. You're having a  
schizophrenic embolism.

EDGEMAR If we can't get you out now... you may never come out of it. 
Your  wife calls every day --

 CLOSE - QUAIL

Even more suspicious.

 TWO SHOT - QUAIL AND EDGEMAR

QUAIL If this is a fantasy, there'll be no real consequences when I 
pull  this trigger.

EDGEMAR But there will by consequences inside your mind. Consequences  
that won't hurt me... but could be fatal to you. (beat) If you shoot 
me, you'll wipe  me out of your fantasy -- I can't come back again. 
Because to you, I'll be dead.  I can't help you get back to reality. 
You'll be stuck in permanent psychosis.

 CLOSE - QUAIL

Trembling, holding the gun point blank in Edgemar's face.

 CLOSE - EDGEMAR

Showing no fear of tension whatever.

EDGEMAR You're going to lower the gun, Mr. Quail. You're going to hand 
it  to me --

 CLOSE - QUAILStraining desperately to find the true "reality."

 EXTREME CLOSEUP - TRIGGER OF GUN

Quail's finger on it.

 TWO SHOT - QUAIL AND EDGEMAR

EDGEMAR You're going to do exactly what I tell you --

Quail PULLS THE TRIGGER!

 REVERSE ANGLE - BACK OF EDGEMAR'S HEAD

We SEE the results of the gunshot from this angle only, and so BRIEFLY 
as  to produce an almost SUBLIMINAL effect: the back of Edgemar's head 
blows off  --

He collapses to the floor.

Melina LEAPS at Edgemar's falling form and CLAMPS HER HANDS over  
Edgemar's RIGHT HAND!

MELINA Watch out, Charles! There's more of them in the hall!

Quail spins toward the door just as it BURSTS OPEN. A man enters, 
firing,  but Quail has fallen to the floor and returns the fire. He 
staggers back out  into the corridor and slams against the wall, dead.

VOICE (O.S.) (from hall) You've had it, Hauser! Throw out your weapon 
if  you want a past!

Melina is still crouched by Edgemar's body, holding his HAND for some  
reason. Her CLIPBOARD dangles by her side.

MELINA (whispering) There's an explosive in the clipboard! He has a  
dead-man switch in his hand!

Squeezing Edgemar's hand shut with one of hers, she holds up her other  
wrist -- to show that the CLIPBOARD IS BOUND TO HER WRIST BY A CHAIN!

VOICE (O.S.) What do you say, Hauser? We haven't got all night! Hauser?

Quail (Hauser) SHOOTS OFF the chain.

QUAIL What happens it I come out?

Quail takes the CLIPBOARD from Melina and eases himself to the side of  
the doorway.

VOICE (O.S.) We'll put in a word with the big boys. Maybe you'll just 
get  exile to Venus.

QUAIL All right. Here comes the weapon.

Quail reaches around the corner and SAILS THE CLIPBOARD into the 
hallway.  Melina lets go of Edgemar's hand --

There is a TREMENDOUS EXPLOSION in the hallway,

 83	INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Quail comes out in crouch, ready to shoot. On the floor lies a DEAD MAN  
and the body of the Shoeshine Boy, sprawled grotesquely. The hallway is 
filled  with smoke. The floor covered with debris. Plaster falling from 
the ceiling.

All over the hotel, ALARMS begin BLARING.

 84	INT. QUAIL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Quail strides back in, icy-furious. He seizes Melina by the wrist and  
drags her after him into the corridor.

 84A	INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Two more E.I.O. men appear but Quail shoots them while dragging Melina  
down the hall in the opposite direction. He pushes open the door 
leading to the  staircase.

 84B	INT. STAIRCASE - NIGHT

Quail and Melina run down the stairs. On the next landing is a service  
elevator, from which a waiter is emerging carefully carrying a tray 
with hors  d'oeuvres and champagne.

QUAIL Back in, quick!

WAITER Wouldn't you prefer your order in your room, sir?

QUAIL In!

Quail bundles the waiter unceremoniously back inside the elevator.

 84C	INT. LIFT - NIGHT

Quail presses the basement button. As he talks to Melina he opens the  
champagne and pours two glasses. The waiter is too frightened to 
protest.

QUAIL Okay. Answers! Now!

MELINA They kidnapped me. Said they'd kill you if I didn't cooperate. I  
told them I didn't care, but then when I realized they meant it...

QUAIL I don't know why they're after me, but what's your connection 
with  all this?

MELINA We were together before.

QUAIL Believe me, I'm really sorry I can't recall the details of that  
encounter.

The elevator has reached the basement. They rush out.

 85	EXT. ALLEY BEHIND HILTON - NIGHT

Quail and Melina run from a basement door into an alley.

A solar car whips out in front of them. Quail and Melina leap aboard.

MELINA Go, Bennie, for God's sake!

 86	INT. BENNIE'S SOLAR CAR - NIGHT

Bennie weaves as fast as he can in and out of the traffic, Quail and  
Melina ducking out of view in the passenger seat.

BENNIE (glances in mirror) Bad news, boss lady.

MELINA What?

BENNIE Black cruiser just pull out behind us.

 86A	EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT

A large gas-powered official-looking car is pushing its way through the  
crowds and traffic behind them.

 86B	INT. BENNIE'S CAR - NIGHT

Quail is aiming his gun at the following car.

BENNIE Forget the shooter, boss. I lose 'em for you.

QUAIL Lose them? In this?

BENNIE Hang on!

Bennie reaches down, grasps a KNOB. He yanks it, like someone starting 
an

outboard motor -- and an ear-splitting LOUD ENGINE roars to life.

Bennie opens the throttle and the solar car HURTLES DOWN THE STREET.  
Quail and Melina are thrown back in the seat.

 87	EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

GUNFIRE blazes all around the car. Quail FIRES back at the pursuing 
car.

QUAIL (shouts over GUNFIRE) You're gonna get a ticket for that engine,  
Bennie --

BENNIE Yutani 650 -- you like it, boss? Nothing like the old gas when 
you  want a bit of speed.

BULLETS from the cruiser rip through the car.

MELINA You better have two aces, Bennie. (glances behind) There's a  
second cruiser -- and it's gaining --

 87A	EXT. CITY STREETS - NIGHT

Bennie's car hurtles through the crowds with the official car gaining 
on  it. Bennie takes a corner sharply near a huge water selling stand. 
The  official car brakes to make the same turn, but clips the side of 
the water stand. The  water container tips and empties water through 
the open roof (i.e. through  which one of the Agents has been firing) 
so that the car completely fills. The driver continues the chase, but 
the occupants are now submerged. They frantic-  ally open the windows 
while continuing to follow Bennie's car.

 88	EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

The solar car rushes down what appears to be a dead-end street, with 
the  official vehicle (water pouring out of the windows) in pursuit.

At the end of the street, however, Bennie doesn't stop but continues  
going into a large opening. It is an abandoned mine. The bigger car 
follows him, but  won't fit. The roof is smashed to pieces as the 
vehicle is wedged into the  narrow opening.

The second official car pulls up behind. A chauffeur jumps out and 
opens  the rear door. Cohaagen steps out. He sur- veys the scene. The 
four men in the  wrecked car clamber their way backwards out of the 
wreckage. They are covered in  blood and their clothes are in shreds.

COHAAGEN I take it, then, you've failed to get him again.

Cohaagen turns to an associate, EMILE, a youngish, well-dressed 
executive  type.

COHAAGEN (continuing) Proceed with Operation Sphinx.

EMILE But, sir...

COHAAGEN With him... (gestures toward the mine) ...on the lose, I'm not  
taking any more chances. Operation Sphinx will flush him out.

93	INT. OLD MINE - NIGHT

The solar car proceeds along the tunnel. It enters an area full of 
smoke.  Dozens of men are sitting around smoking cigarettes, pipes and 
cigars. Quail  looks at them in amazement.

QUAIL What's all this?

BENNIE Nothin', boss. Just old smokies. Only place they can come for a  
puff. It's all banned topside.

They have now climbed out of the car. Quail looks searchingly at Melina  
and Bennie.

QUAIL So you two are into something a bit more serious than the taxi 
and truck-stop business.

BENNIE That's right, boss.

He unzips his jacket to reveal a T-shirt with "MARTIAN LIBERATION 
FRONT"  (and an appropriate symbol) emblazoned on it.

QUAIL My God!... T-shirts. They died out on Earth years ago.

BENNIE (hurt) Well, maybe we ain't fashion leaders, boss.

MELINA No. But we still believe in a free Mars.

They walk as they talk - into a room off the main tunnel. It is adorned  
with "FREE MARS" and "MARTIAN LIBERATION FRONT" posters. A group of 
people are

printing T-shirts and leaflets. They exchange greetings with Melina and  
Bennie.

QUAIL So where did I fit into all this?

MELINA You - when you were Charles Hauser with E.I.O - infiltrated our  
group. I guess Cohaagen didn't trust you any more when you and I...

Her gesture suggests their liaison.

QUAIL Yeah. And I can't even remember it. We'll have to arrange a 
return  bout.

MELINA ...so he had your memory wiped and fixed you up with a new  
identity.

QUAIL But - the Sphinx. Why is that stuck in my mind? Why's it so  
important?

MELINA I don't know.

BENNIE Just an ole heap o' stone, boss.

QUAIL It's more than that, Bennie, I know it's more. Somehow it's  
connected.

He slumps into a chair with frustration.

MELINA (reflecting) Maybe there's a way you can get your memory back.

QUAIL How? What? Where? When?

MELINA A bit of Martian Wisdom. We're not all stupid colonists.

 99	EXT. CITY - NIGHT

Bennie, Quail and Melina are walking in a crowded area of town. Water  
sellers and food stalls are everywhere. An ARMORED LOUDSPEAKER VEHICLE 
appears,  broadcasting to the crowd. It is also swinging a powerful 
searchlight along the  footpaths and streets.

VOICE FROM LOUDSPEAKER ...all residents are to report to their nearest 
space-travel agent within twelve hours, all residents will be departing  
on shuttles within twenty-four hours. Air and water supplies will be 
cut off  at that time. I repeat...

MELINA He's doing it!

QUAIL What? Why?

MELINA Clearing everyone out! It's been rumored for months...

The searchlight approaches Bennie, Quail and Melina. Bennie ducks into 
a  doorway, while Quail grabs Melina and kisses her passionately. The 
light sees only  the back of his head. She responds warmly to his kiss.

QUAIL Wow. I can see why I was willing to betray E.I.O.

MELINA I though you believed in our cause?

QUAIL Yes. Of course. That, too.

They move into the crowd. The message on the loudspeaker is repeated.

 101	INT. KUATO'S SANCTUARY - NIGHT

The interior of the room is an amazing contrast to its ghetto exterior.  
The decor is a baroque combination of Middle Eastern opulence and 21st 
century  flash. It looks like something out of "The Arabian Nights".

A man enters from another room. Although the man's features are East  
Indian, he is very much a Peter Lorre type; he wears a small fez cap 
and a white  linen robe with a cowl draped around the back of his neck.

STRANGE MAN (nodding to Quail) Your servant, Fahreem Kuato. I greet you  
by the twenty-seven names that still remain, praying that you cast 
jewels into  the darkness and given them to glow with the colors of 
life.

As Kuato speaks, Quail, unimpressed, talks, sotto voce, to Melina.

QUAIL What use is this weirdo?

MELINA Ssssh...there are skills on mars that Earth has forgotten.

KUATO No need to introduce yourself, Mr. Quail. (smiles at Quail's  
surprise) Tolerate my presumption, but it does not tax my powers to 
know that you  are the most sought-after man on two worlds.

From the street the sound of loudspeakers giving information about 
Quail  and Co. can be heard. Searchlight beams occasionally sweep past 
the windows.

KUATO (continuing) This way, my dear man. We have much to accomplish -- 
(ominously) -- and very little time.

 102	INT. KUATO'S INNER SANCTUM - NIGHT

A Bysantine salon filled with enormous Oriental pillows.

(NOTE: In the scenes inside Kuato's sanctum, the loudspeaker vans in 
the  outside streets can be heard from time to to time. They are 
repeating the  evacuation message from scene 99, but alternating it 
with a call for the  apprehension of Quail and Melina...

VOICE FROM LOUDSPEAKER ...for information leading to these arrests,  
first-class travel to Earth will be provided plus a weekend at the 
Leningrad  Disneyworld, all expenses paid. I repeat, an Oriental girl 
and Earthman, possibly to be  found in the company of a black taxi 
driver. These are dangerous subversives and  sworn enemies of the 
glorious Peoples Republic of Mars...)

KUATO The turbulence you hear outside is but a reflection of the 
turmoil  within you. You have brought it to Mars in your search for 
yourself.  Kuato takes a seat on the pillows, invites the others to 
join him. Quail hesitates.

QUAIL And you're going to help me by reading my mind?

KUATO Indubitably. There is only small matter of a fee.

THREE RESPONSES COME TOGETHER.

QUAIL A fee!

KAUTO Naturally.

MELINA This is for our cause!

KUATO (soothingly) Income before ideals. Shall we say  five-hundred-
thousand dollars?

QUAIL (appalled) Five-hundred-thousand Martian dollars, that's... 
(think,

calculating the exchange rate)

KUATO Not Martian dollars, Mr. Quail - Earth dollars.

MELINA That's interplanetary robbery!

QUAIL With today's exchange rate... that's over two million Martian  
dollars!

KUATO (suave) What price do you put, Mr. Quail, on the future of the  
solar system?

BENNIE Aw, come off it, man. Just for a bit of mumbo-jumbo with a 
crystal  ball.

KUATO (his manner slipping) Listen, buster, we're talking heavy stuff  
here. You try and work out what's with this guy!

He jerks his thumb toward Quail.  QUAIL Okay! Okay! I'll pay it, but 
the Interstellar Trade Practices  Commission might be interested in 
this.

Everyone calms down.

Kuato smiles. He extinguishes all the lights save one small blue one,  
which illuminates the room eerily, like a seance.

KUATO Retrieving the past is like walking backwards along a perilous  
road. The half-recalled, the half-forgotten, the repressed, the 
fantasies, the  triumphs, joys, failures, betrayals...

He closes his eyes and concentrates.

KUATO (continuing) Yes... I can feel it... a wall. Erasure techniques 
are  so brutal. (frowns; scans harder) Blocks. Side channels. Future 
and past all

jumbled. I shall have to enter deep trance to break through. (rising) I  
will be scanning you through the Oracle Head.

Kauto turns around and sits down with back toward Quail. He reaches up  
and lowers his cowl, REVEALING:

A TINY LITTLE HEAD GROWING OUT OF THE BACK OF HIS NECK!

The head's eyes are closed in sleep. It is utterly hairless and looks  
like one of those dolls made from dried apples; a shriveled, ancient-
looking yellow  little ball.

The LITTLE FACE TWITCHED, YAWNS and OPENS ITS EYES, BLINKS. It looks at  
Melina, then at Quail.

It opens its toothless little mouth and SPEAKS.

ORACLE HEAD Do not fear me. I need your openness...

ZOOM IN ON QUAIL'S EYES.

ORACLE HEAD (continuing) Open you thoughts to my presence...CONTINUE 
ZOOM  UNTIL ENTIRE FRAME is filled by QUAIL'S EYE.

ORACLE HEAD (continuing) Open...

DISSOLVE TO:

 BLACKNESS BROKEN BY PULSES OF WHITE LIGHT

The alternations between dark (ACTION) and white (LIGHT) are RHYTHMICAL  
so as to create a hypnotic, dream-like feeling.

 103	WHITE LIGHT

Fades to reveal a dramatic CLOSE UP of the SPHINX. We see its face,  
shoulders and behind it the red Martian sky --

 103A PULL BACK

to reveal the Sphinx is a PROJECTION on a screen in a windowless 
briefing  room. Quail is seated across from Cohaagen and other SENIOR 
E.I.O. OFFICERS. On  the walls are numerous satellite photos, recon 
maps and excavation drawings  -- all relating to the Sphinx.

 107	EXT. MARTIAN SPHINX - SUNSET

Scaffolding and excavation works cover a wall of the Sphinx; the 
Sphinx's  huge CARVED FACE visible in the background.

Quail and several other E.I.O. agents stand poised, wearing breathing  
masks and protective gear, as a powerful excavation device prizes back 
a huge  stone, revealing an ENTRANCE TO SOME KIND OF HIDDEN CHAMBER.

The other agents are fearful, don't want to proceed. Quail ignores 
them,  enters the chamber --

 107A CLOSE - QUAIL'S FACE

As he enters. We read awe, shock and fascination on his features. He  
approaches something we can't see. His hand reaches out.

Suddenly, a bolt of incredible powerful energy flashes out, striking  
Quail like a bolt of lightning.

WHITE LIGHT.

 105	INT. LAST CHANCE SALOON - NIGHT

Quail and Melina are dancing. The faceted mirror ball on the ceiling  
become the --

WHITE LIGHT.

 106	INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Melina watches from the bed as Quail dresses. She rises, with only the  
sheet around her, tries desperately to make Quail stay. Plainly he 
wants to,  but he can't. They kiss lingeringly; then Quail, as if 
"called to duty," exits.

WHITE LIGHT.

 108	INT. DETENTION CELL - WINDOWLESS

Quail alone, hands bound, in a holding chamber. Suddenly, the door 
opens  and THREE BEEFY E.I.O. AGENTS enter. They grab Quail to haul him 
out. Quail  battles them with amazing skill and resourcefulness. With 
his bound hands he  SLUGS ONE MAN, hurling him into a wall; he RABBIT- 
PUNCHES a second man with a  two-handed blow and KNOCKS HIM 
UNCONSCIOUS. The third man sneaks around behind Quail  and DROPS HIM 
WITH A BLACKJACK to the back of the head.

WHITE LIGHT.

 109	INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - WINDOWLESS

Quail on his back, all four limbs pinned by some futuristic version of  
"the rack," his head held imobile by a FEARSOME DEVICE similar to the 
one we  glimpsed on Earth, in the van the two agents tried to shove him 
into.

Several DOCTORS stand over him. INTO FRAME moves... Cohaagen!

Cohaagen orders the doctors to attach electrodes to PROBES already  
inserted into Quail's brain. As they turn up the power, Quail's face 
contorts in a  grimace of agony --

ORACLE HEAD'S VOICE You have seen your past. Now read the future...

WHITE LIGHT.

 110	INT. SURREAL TUNNEL - DAY OR NIGHT

The same scene we saw during the film's OPENING SEQUENCE.

A man wearing a LIGHT-WEIGHT THERMAL SUIT races through a LABYRINTH OF  
TUNNELS. The GROUND TREMBLES beneath him, as if in an earthquake. 
EXPLOSIONS  rumble deep in the ground below him. Suddenly we realize -- 
the man is Quail

 INSERT - CLOSE - QUAIL

He throws a backward glance over his shoulder, fearfully, as he runs.  
Suddenly a BRILLIANT WHITE LIGHT floods in from ahead of him; he puts 
up his hands  to protect his eyes -- and sees his hands are SPLATTERED 
WITH BLOOD!

Quail runs even faster -- ahead the BRILLIANT LIGHT seems to promise  
safety. He battles toward it. SOUNDS OF EXPLOSIONS increase, building 
urgency. Up  ahead, emerging from the light, HANDS REACH OUT TO HELP 
QUAIL. He seems almost  to safety. But just as he REACHES THE HANDS --

TWO GUNSHOTS RING OUT!

SHOCK CUT TO:

 111	INT. KUATO'S INNER SANCTUM - NIGHT

Quail awakens with a jolt. White as a sheet... sweating like he's just  
run ten miles. Then: a transformation seems to come over him. He LOOKS 
-- and  SEES:

KUATO slumped across the cushions -- MELINA beside Kuato -- BENNIE  
standing holding a smoking GUN trained on Kuato.

MELINA (rushes to Quail) Charles! Are you all right?

Quail stares at her, as if an entire bank of lost memories were 
suddenly  clicking back into place --

MELINA (continuing) He kept dragging you deeper and deeper into the  
trance! We couldn't wake either of you!

BENNIE You stopped breathing!

Quail gives Bennie that same eerie look, then turns to Kuato, who is  
sprawled motionless across the pillows, a curl of smoke rising from two 
entry  wounds in his spine.

QUAIL Why did you kill him? It was the next bit I really...

BENNIE No choice, boss. It was him or you.

Quail lunges across the pillows to Kuato's unbreathing form. Quail 
shakes  the ancient mystic, trying to find a last flicker of life.

Kuato's body is dead white. Quail releases his grip; he about to give 
up  when --

A MUFFLED CHOCKED SOUND comes from behind Kuato's neck. It's the Oracle  
Head! Quail instantly rolls Kuato's body over. The Head is still alive!

Quail bends closer, kneeling.

ORACLE HEAD (whispers) -- the vengence you seek... and the salvation of  
Mars... are waiting for you in the crown of the Sphinx. (sags, gasping)

The Oracle Head lets out a LONG SIGH and goes limp, a small trickle of  
blood oozing from the corner of its mouth.

BENNIE Phobos and Demos! What was that all about?

Quail ignores him, still kneeling -- deep in thought -- over the Oracle  
Head.

MELINA Are you okay?... Charles? Doug? Whoever?

Quail reaches out and closes the Oracle Head's tiny eyelids. Melina and  
Bennie exchange a glance. Then:

 QUAIL

Stands. For a moment his back is to Melina and Bennie. Then he turns.

He has become a different man. His eyes gleam. He is forceful,  
purposeful, contained. Once again the ace E.I.O. agent. Melina senses 
immediately  that this is the man she knew before

QUAIL (even his voice has changed) I'm fine... only I'm not Doug -- I'm  
Charles Hauser... and I know everything Hauser knew.

He turns to Bennie

QUAIL (continuing) Bennie, where's your depot?

BENNIE (working it out) Well... you go outta here... take a left, then  
down past the first... no second... water bureau you...

QUAIL (briskly) Can you get us there?

BENNIE No problem.

MELINA But why?

QUAIL We're going to the Sphinx.

He strides off. The others follow, still full of questions.

BENNIE Impossible, man. Guards everywhere.

MELINA The Oracle... what did you learn?

QUAIL Only everything. I've got total recall.

They are now heading down the stairs toward the street.

 114	EXT. STREET - EARLY MORNING

Quail, Melina and Bennie make their way through the crowds to Bennie's  
depot. The streets are even busier then before - people are now 
beginning to  evacuate the city. Everyone is carrying their possessions 
- bundles, suitcases, pets,  etc., etc. The loudspeaker vans are still 
touring and broad- casting the same  message.

Bennie indicates a building on their left.

 115	INT. CAR POOL - EARLY MORNING

Bennie and Melina follow Quail as he walks up and down the rows of  
vehicles in the vast building. There are bull- dozers and ore haulers 
as well as  solar taxis.

BENNIE We'll never get near the Sphinx! They'll blow us apart!

Quail ignores him as he continues to mumble to himself. He rapidly but  
carefully inspects each vehicle as they pass. Camera tracks rapidly 
with them.

MELINA What are we doing, Charles? For God's sake, tell us.

QUAIL The Sphinx... it's not some useless artifact, it's a machine 
built  by some alien race eighteen millions years ago. The same race 
that built the on  one Earth... for the same purpose.

He stops in front of a large, odd-shaped vehicle with a large scoop or  
propeller on the front.

QUAIL (continuing) This is what we need.

He begins to climb in; the others follow.

BENNIE (referring to the Sphinx) It's a hunk of old stone, man.

MELINA (ditto) Purpose? What purpose?

Bennie starts the engine.

QUAIL Come on, Bennie, move it. (then, to Melina) Have you heard the  
word, "terriform"?

Melina shakes her head. The vehicle moves off.

 115A EXT. AIR LOCK - MORNING

GUARDS are carefully checking every vehicle leaving the city, though 
this  has to be done fairly rapidly because of the inhabitants leaving 
for the Space  Ports.

The vehicle with Bennie, Quail and Melina arrives.

 115B INT. VEHICLE - AIR LOCK - MORNING

Bennie is nervous. Melina and Quail are in the back, but cannot be 
seen.  Guards are checking all vehicles exiting, looking for Quail and 
Melina.

BENNIE (calling to Guards) Just deliverin' some old junk to the mine 
out  at Apidalia Planitia. Got them people you're lookin' for in the 
back as  well.

The Guards laugh and signal him on.

Once through the second door of the air lock (i.e. to the area outside  
the city), Quail and Melina emerge and sit up on the rear seats.

QUAIL The machine in the Sphinx is tapped straight down to the molten  
core of this planet. There are tunnels and ducts everywhere, all 
powered by  fusion generators...

BENNIE You sure the little man didn't fry your brain, Quail?

MELINA (overlapping) For what? To do what?

QUAIL To combine elements in the Martian core and release them as 
oxygen,

hydrogen and nitrogen.

BENNIE That's air!

 116B EXT. DESERT - MORNING

In a wide shot, the vehicle is traversing the desert. The domed city is  
some distance in the background. Voices are heard in false perspective.  
Emphasis is on the dry and hostile natural landscape of Mars.

QUAIL That's right. Air and water. Terriforming will create a permanent  
livable environment for Mars. No more pressurized cities, no more 
containers in  the desert. There'll be rivers, vegetation - life - the 
same as Earth.

MELINA (baffled) So why is Cohaagen shipping everyone out?

QUAIL Don't you see?! From being a pile of red dirt with minerals, Mars  
is going to change into a chunk of priceless real estate.

MELINA And Cohaagen's going to own it all!

QUAIL Right! He can start selling it off to well-heeled investors from  
Earth. Beach condos, ski resorts, you name it.

MELINA No wonder he wanted you to... penetrate... out group.

QUAIL (nods) Once word of this gets out, the whole planet will support  
you.

 117	EXT. DESERT - DAY

The vehicle is now approaching the Sphinx. Both it and the pyramids can  
be seen some distance away.

Voice are heard in CU perspective.

MELINA So what can we do?

QUAIL Ruin his little scheme by terriforming ahead of schedule - while  
the inhabitants are still here.

Melina is amazed.

MELINA But who'll work the machine? Do you know how?

QUAIL I'm the only one who does. Why do you think Cohaagen's left me  
alone all this time?

 118	EXT. DESERT - DAY

The vehicle is even closer to the Sphinx.

QUAIL I was the first one inside when they cracked the riddle of the  
Sphinx. It must've been programmed. Some kind of...force...shot into 
me.

MELINA But Cohaagen wiped your memory!!!

QUAIL (smoothly) Just a way of putting me on ice. He'd of reversed it  
once the planet was evacuated.

BENNIE Man! This is real complicated. Go over it again, real slow.

 119	INT. VEHICLE - DAY

QUAIL (ignoring Bennie's aside) What he hadn't counted on was your 
effect  on me.

MELINA (smiling) And all without the marvels of modern science!

Quail looks out the back window, his attention attracted by two patrol  
vehicles. They are some distance away, but approaching steadily.

 119A EXT. DESERT - DAY

A wide shot shows a total of four patrol vehicles approach- ing the  
vehicle with Quail, Melina and Bennie. Suddenly, it stops moving.

 120	INT. VEHICLE - DAY

The vehicle had just stopped.

QUAIL Bennie, don't stop now, take it...

He turns to see Bennie is covering him and Melina with a pistol.

MELINA You bastard.

BENNIE Like I said. It's a tough planet. I'm a baddie, not a goodie.

QUAIL I should have known, you were just too helpful.

BENNIE EIO Rule One, man. Trust Nobody. Now you can do your 
terriforming  stuff right when those space shuttles are gone.

MELINA But what about the Martian people? Out cause? I thought you  
believed in it.

BENNIE Your cause? That bunch of dead beat radicals! When I hand in 
this  little number... (flicks his gun in Quail's face) ...I'll get 
real estate rights  on the whole of Chryse Planitia...

At that instant, Melina lunges, PUNCHES A RED EMERGENCY BUTTON. The 
VENT  beside Bennie's hand BLOWS OPEN, [causing] a powerful suction 
caused by Mars's  vacuum atmosphere. Bennie's gun hand is PLANTED 
AGAINST THE VENT [OPENING.]

Simultaneously, the air in the vehicle starts rushing out! All three  
parties begin choking. As Bennie's mechanical hand claws for the lever 
that seals  the vent, Quail has a moment to jump him. He pounds 
Bennie's gun hand, the  PISTOL IS SUCKED, CLATTERING, OUT THE VENT!

Quail delivers a roundhouse punch to Bennie, knocking him clear across  
the bus.

Melina seals the vent, REPRESSURIZES THE CABIN.

Bennie gets up off the floor, shaking off Quail's punch--

 121	EXT. DESERT - DAY

The E.I.O. vehicle are a half mile off -- and closing in.

 122	INT. SAND MOLE - DAY

Quail glances at the vehicles, turns to Bennie -- ready to jump him. 
But  stops short at what he sees Bennie doing.

Bennie is clipping on his MECHANICAL ARM. It sprouts several rows of 
vicious-looking STEEL BLADES --

BENNIE This makes Bennie a cut above anyone else.

Bennie presses another button and the BLADES START SPINNING. Bennie's  
mechanical arm is in effect now a BUZZ SAW!

The fight begins. Bennie attacks Quail with his buzz-saw arm; Quail  
dodges. Bennie's arm shreds various articles in the cabin -- and keeps 
Melina at  bay with well-timed swipes. Finally Bennie gets in a 
roundhouse punch to Quail's  jaw with his real hand. Quail sprawls, 
dazed.

Now Bennie goes for the kill. But Melina leaps onto him. Bennie grabs 
her  by the hair and moves his SPINNING HAND in for the quick kill. 
Melina clutches  the terrifying appendage with both hands, desperately 
keeping it at bay. But  her strength is no match for Bennie; the 
whirring blades are just about to  bite into Melina's neck when --

Quail comes back, lands a ferocious rabbit punch to Bennie's spine. 
Quail  lunges at him, grabs the blade weapon; he and Bennie crash into 
the cabin wall  and --

The BLADE RIPS CLEAR THROUGH THE MOLE'S WALL! Alarms sound as a GAPING  
HOLE IS BLOWN IN THE SIDE OF THE CABIN! ALL THE AIR IS SUCKED OUT BY 
MARS'S  EXTERNAL VACUUM!

Now no one can breathe. They all claw for their masks, [still] in 
place.  Bennie is first; he recovers, lunges with his SPINNING ARM for 
Quail. Quail  barely dodges, grabs the arm, muscles it back toward 
Bennie --

The SPINNING BLADES SEVER BENNIE'S OWN OXYGEN LINE! Gasp- ing, he  
falters. Quail aims a titanic blow, PUNCHES BENNIE out through the hole 
in the mole's  wall!

Quail and Melina, masks on, stare out as Bennie claws desperately at 
his  severed air line. The Martian vacuum pulls the oxygen from 
Bennie's lungs, he  chokes, staggers --

 122AA EXT. DESERT - DAY

Bennie is beside the vehicle. He implodes like a balloon with all its 
air  gone.

 122AB INT/EXT. VEHICLE - DAY

Melina hides her face in horror. At that instant --

 122A EXT. DESERT - DAY

Bullets dig into the sand all around the vehicle. The patrol cars are  
only a few hundred yards away! Loud- speakers call for Quail's 
surrender.

 122B INT. VEHICLE - DAY

Quail lunges for the vehicle controls. Presses a buttonmarked "Dive". 
The  vehicle tilts.

 122C EXT. DESERT - DAY

The vehicle burrows powerfully into the sand. As the patrol cars close 
in  and rake the desert with gunfire, the vehicle vanishes from sight. 
In the  distance, the Sphinx looms ominously.

A driver in one of the patrol vehicles (filmed from outside the  
windscreen) is speaking into a microphone. He can't be heard but can 
only be radioing a  report.

 123	INT. SAND MOLE - MOVING - UNDERGROUND

The little mining vehicle moves powerfully, propelled by its BORER 
NOSE.

Quail mans the controls while Melina struggles to shore up the gaping  
hole in the side, into which SAND is POURING as the mole moves forward. 
Quail looks  at a compass in the control panel. He makes a correction.

QUAIL (shouts over engine noise) Hope I've got this direction right.

Sand pours over him from bullet holes resulting from the encounter with  
patrol cars.

CU speedometer: 22 MPH. Every other gauge is overheating, flashing  
WARNING LIGHTS --

 124	INT. SPHINX CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Cohaagen and a number of his associates, plus scientists and heavily 
arms  troops are present.

COHAAGEN The air supply is off under the domes?

EMILE Yes, sir. In a couple of hours it'll be all gone.

COHAAGEN Any trouble with the rabble?

EMILE Not much, sir. A lot of complaining. But they're all heading  
towards the shuttle areas.

On some of the video screens a number of space shuttles can be seen,  
ready for departure to Earth.

 123	INT. TUNNEL BENEATH SPHINX

The Mole bores through a sand wall, emerges into a cramped horizontal  
tunnel. Quail and Melina leap out. The poor Mole is smoking like an 
overheated  drill bit. Its nose is worn to a nub.

MELINA We got in with this thing, but we'll never get back out.

QUAIL A shame. Such a pleasant trip.

There's a lighted area at the end of the tunnel. Quail and Melina hurry  
toward it, moving silently, close to the wall.

 126B INT. MAIN DOWNSHAFT

They draw up an abyss -- where their tunnel intersects the MAIN  
DOWNSHAFT. Melina gasps at the colossal scale of the drilling, hundreds 
of yards across,  deeper than the eye can see, and crisscrossed by 
catwalks, buttresses and super-sophisticated technology.

Quail and Melina are forty feet below the upper end of the main  
downshaft. They can look up the shaft and see the first interior level 
of the Sphinx  itself.

QUAIL (points down shaft) This is the main tap -- straight down to the  
core of Mars. When we trigger the mechanism, fusion reactors will 
detonate down  there -- four hundred miles deep.

MELINA Remind me not to slip.

QUAIL The new elements will come booming up through this shaft -- and 
six

thousand others all around the planet.

He's right at home -- and full of confidence.

Quail climbs onto the ladder, which links various top levels.

He starts to climb. Melina follows him. They are tiny figures. The 
space  around them plummets down to infinity.

 127	INT. CORRIDOR AT TOP OF SHAFT - LOWEST MANNED LEVEL (LEVEL ONE)

A patrol of NINE HEAVILY-ARMED GUARDS appear from a corridor in Level 
One  -- directly above where Quail and Melina are climbing.

 128	ON THE WALL OF THE SHAFT

Quail and Melina's heads inch into view at floor level. They take one  
peek at these formidable warriors and duck back swiftly out of sight.

 129	INT. TOP OF SHAFT - LOWEST MANNED LEVEL (LEVEL ONE)

GUARD LEADER (to two of his men) Stay in contact. I want to hear from  
this checkpoint every four minutes.

Seven of the Guards move off, two remain in position.

We HEAR the FOOTSTEPS of the seven guards recede.

The two remaining guards realize their isolation; they glance tensely 
to  one another.

GUARD #1 Did you hear something?

GUARD #2 No. Where?

GUARD #1 Over there.

The First Guard points to the edge of the main shaft -- right where 
Quail  and Melina are hiding. The Guards cock their weapons, start 
cautiously  forward. Just as they're about to peer over the brink, guns 
at the ready:

QUAIL'S VOICE (O.S.) (from behind the guards) I'm not there, boys. I'm  
here.

The guards spin around, weapons poised. Standing in the shadows, near 
the

corridor, is Quail! (Still with no gun)

Both guards walk quickly toward Quail, covering him with their weapons.

GUARD #1 (to Guard #2) Watch him. He was EIO trained. They're all full 
of  tricks.

GUARD #2 Yeah? Like...who was that guy? -- Fred Bond?? (to Quail) Keep  
'em up, Fred, keep 'em up.

Quail has his arms raised high. Just as the Guards reach him, he fizzes 
electronically, emitting a humming sound, then disappears.

GUARD #1 A hologram!

Before either Guard can react, the real Quail appears -- one foot 
behind  them. With two LIGHTNING BLOWS, he dispatches the Guards. 
(Apparently Quail has  climbed out of the shaft while the Guards were 
distracted.)

Quail snatches both Guards' weapons, grenades and ammo belts. Melina  
climbs out of the shaft. Quail tosses her one of the Guard's guns.

 130	INT. CORRIDOR - LEVEL ONE

ALARMS go off everywhere. Quail -- carrying a gun and all the grenades  
and ammo belts -- and Melina (just carrying a gun) bolt down a corridor 
past a  sign: "LEVEL ONE".

MELINA (running) Where'd you get that little trick?

QUAIL (running) Mail-order company. It's a great one for fooling the  
wife.

 131	INT. CONTROL ROOM (LEVEL THIRTEEN)

Cohaagen and his Aides hear the ALARMS, see Quail and Melina on 
MONITORS  as they race down the corridor on Level One.

COHAAGEN How the hell did they get in?

SECURITY AIDE Up the fusion core.

COHAAGEN Up the fusion core??

He exhibits begrudging admiration for Quail.

SECURITY AIDE (studies monitor more carefully) They're on Level One.  A 
wall sign behind Cohaagen reads: "LEVEL THIRTEEN".

COHAAGEN Seal all upper levels.

A button is pressed and huge doors slide across in front of the  
formidable doors already closing the Control Room off from the outside 
corridors.

 133	INT. LEVEL ONE CORRIDOR

Quail and Melina are still racing through the corridors. He passes her 
a  fresh ammo belt.

QUAIL (indicates weapons) Know how to use one of these?

Melina expertly ejects her spent clip (that Guards fired at Quail), 
slams  in a fresh clip and cocks the gun.

Quail has a half-second to react, impressed, then -- FOUR GUARDS pound  
into view at the end of the corridor.

Melina opens fire, nails two. Quail heaves a grenade; as it EXPLODES, 
he  and Melina bolt down a side corridor --

 134	INT. VARIOUS CORRIDORS, CATWALKS, STAIRS

ALARMS continue as Quail and Melina dash down the side passageway. MORE  
GUARDS cut them off; Melina's machine gun sends them scattering --

Quail pauses at a corner. He looks around quickly and sees that an  
elevator is arriving. He motions Melina back. The doors of the elevator 
begin to  open. Very quickly, Quail bobs his head and arm around the 
corner. He calls out,  loudly...

QUAIL Catch! He hurls something toward the armed men in the elevator. 
Instinctively one of them reaches for the thrown object. It is an  
explosive device of some sort. Quail and Melina press themselves 
against the wall  just around a corner from the elevator. There is a 
tremendous explosion.

Quail, followed by Melina, rounds a corner. The elevator is in ruins;  
bodies are scattered everywhere.

MELINA Great stuff, but how do we get up?

She points toward the upper levels.

 135	INT. CONTROL ROOM (LEVEL THIRTEEN)

Melina and Quail can be seen on the security monitor from a high angle.  
Quail looks up, spots the monitor, and shoots is to pieces. The image 
on the  screen goes black.

COHAAGEN Forget them. We'll pick up Quail once the shuttles have left 
for  Earth.

 137	INT. CORRIDOR

Quail spots a large WINDOWED AIR LOCK at the end of the corridor. He 
and  Melina race to it. Quail starts to open the inner door of the air 
lock.

QUAIL If you're afraid of the heights, you better get over it real 
quick.

 He is pulling Melina through the inner air lock door just as --

GUARDS stampede around the corner of the corridor toward them.

Quail is out of sight, but they see Melina poised near the window. She  
waves and smiles to them, hiding her gun behind her body. They slow 
down and  approach less cautiously, beguiled by her manner and 
attractiveness. As they get close,  she suddenly lifts her gun and 
opens fire, mowing them down.

 140	EXT. SPHINX'S FACE - DAY

Quail and Melina climb through the outer air lock door. They are at the  
Sphinx's shoulder, with a dizzying drop beneath them. Melina looks 
down. She's  sorry she did: the fall is at least 200 feet. (Both are 
wearing their breathing  apparatus.)

Quail and Melina start to climb. Up the Sphinx's shoulder, along its 
Egyptian-like headdress --

 141	INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Cohaagen's chief aide, Emile, addresses him quietly.

EMILE If Quail's the only one who can operate all this... (gestures  
toward Sphinx's controls) ...then he can call all the shots.

COHAAGEN We'll tell him the computer's worked out the operational 
details  so we don't really need him. We're just doing him a favor.

EMILE And if that doesn't work?

COHAAGEN We offer him rewards.

EMILE What if that doesn't work?

COHAAGEN We'll torture him. You don't think I got this far by being a  
nice guy?

 142	EXT. SPHINX'S FACE - DAY

Quail and Melina traverse across the cheekbones, haul themselves up at  
the base of the red translucent eyes --

 142A INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY

The video monitors show the space shuttles. An operator, with 
earphones,  turns to Cohaagen.

OPERATOR First of the shuttles ready for departure, sir. Two minute  
countdown.

 142B EXT. SPHINX - DAY

Quail jams THREE GRENADES against the glass of the eyes, pulls Melina  
back behind the stone cheeks --

 143	INT. SPHINX CONTROL ROOM

A MUFFLED EXPLOSION (due to the thin Martian atmosphere) detonates  
overhead. THE SPHINX'S RIGHT EYE BLOWS IN a storm of shards and 
shrapnell.

Instantly, the room turns into a hurricane as the Martian vacuum sucks  
out all air! Everyone panics, grabbing their

COHAAGEN Seal the breach! Repressurize!

An aide dives for an EMERGENCY SWITCH. But now --

Quail and Melina, wearing breather masks, bursts in onto an overhead  
catwalk. They OPEN FIRE on the Guards, who are choking, struggling with 
their  masks.

An EMERGENCY PRESSURE SEAL powers into place, sealing the breach in the  
eye. REPRESSURIZATION comes up, the internal atmosphere stabilizes --

None of the men inside the control room still moves. The victors tug 
off  their masks, spring down to the main level. Melina hurries to the 
main control  panel.

Melina looks towards the video monitors showing half a dozen huge space  
shuttles lined up for departure.

MELINA Those shuttles are starting up any minute. If you know how to 
work  this thing, you better do it now.

Quail tentatively approaches the imposingly complex machinery.

QUAIL Yes...

He hesitates.

MELINA Don't you know how?

Transfixed, mesmerized, Quail moves closer to the control panel.

QUAIL Yes... there's a vital connection missing...

He approaches even closer. He begins to raise his arm towards a blank  
area a little above his head.

QUAIL (continuing) ...me...

COHAAGEN Wait!

MELINA Don't wait!

COHAAGEN If you activate the mechanism you'll die...there were glimpses  
of it in your memory.

QUAIL Wrong, Cohaagen, there's a long tunnel, a brilliant white light,  
hands reaching for me...

COHAAGEN (assured) That's your death. That's what it looks like. That's  
what is always looks like.

Quail looks around him, half-convinced.

MELINA (looking toward space shuttles on video screens) Charles - for  
Mars's sake....

Quail hesitates. He looks from Melina to Cohaagen.

COHAAGEN It's not too late. Join us again. U've a lot to offer. A whole  
world.

Quail continues to look at him, thoughtfully.

QUAIL You don't deserve a new world, you and people like you made too 
big  a mess of the old one. Time someone else had a chance.

He turns back to the machine and slowly raises his arm again. His 
fingers  reach towards the blank section on the panel. Slowly, through 
the panel, a  luminous hand reaches toward Quail's fingers. Gently, the 
fingers of the two hands  touch.

The entire control room begins to rumble and shudder. As Quail reaches  
for Melina, Cohaagen suddenly dives on him. They grapple amid the 
shuddering  Sphinx and can be seen only intermittently as debris 
crashes around them.

The fight ends as Cohaagen is hurled backwards and disappears when a  
section of floor collapses underneath him.

 144	INT. SURREAL TUNNEL

A reprise of the sequence that opened the movie.

Quail RUNS THROUGH A LABYRINTH OF TUNNELS. THE GROUND HEAVES BENEATH 
HIM  ... HUGE STONE BLOCKS CRASH DONW ON ALL SIDES! We hear an 
EXPLOSION and ANOTHER  and ANOTHER, each one SOUNDING CLOSER than the 
last --

Quail clamps him breathing mask on as he runs. Is this his own death?  
Where is Melina?

The tunnel walls are just like the ones in Quail's original nightmare -
-  bright reddish-orange, clay and quartz.

Quail throws a backward glance fearfully over his shoulder. The  
EXPLOSIONS are closer. Suddenly --

Up ahead appears a BRILLIANT WHITE LIGHT. Quail sees it, but it only  
terrifies him more. Is it death he's running to? He hurries on with all 
his  strength, but --

Just as he nears the white light, HE FALLS. On his knees, too weak to  
move. He struggles --

HANDS ARE REACHING OUT TO HIM, from out of the brilliant light. Quail  
stretches for them, just as --

A FINAL EXPLOSION blows him forward -- straight into the WHITE LIGHT! 
The  HANDS SEIZE HIM, pull him upward to --

 145	EXT. MARTIAN DESERT - DAY

The hands belong to breather-masked MINERS, dismounting rapidly from an 
overloaded transport vehicle which was taking them to the Space Port.  
Quail looks from them to Melina, who is walking towards the group.

 QUAIL'S P.O.V. - MINERS' MASKED FACES

The miners' desert garb, shield goggles and breathers add to the 
surreal nightmare quality of Quail's tortured perspective --

 BACK TO QUAIL

In terror, lost, disoriented totally.

QUAIL Am I dying?

MASKED MINER I won't lie to you, pal. You are.

MINER (from Melina's bar) I'd say in about forty years... (he and 
others  help Quail to his feet) ...come on, we've gotta get to the 
Space Port. That Intergalactic Napoleon's switched off the air.

2ND MINER Shippin' us all out. Mars is finished.

A MINER'S WIFE watches them. She is crying.

Quail looks up at the sky. Melina follows his glance. So do the others.

Slowly, but perceptibly, the color is changing from yellow to blue.

MELINA It's happening.

MINER What is it?

All the miners are puzzled, apprehensive. Quail reaches toward the one  
who spoke to him before and pulls off his breathing apparatus. At first 
the man is  shocked, then realizes he can breathe without it. Quail 
takes off his own, then  Melina's  All the miners watch in amazement. 
They all remove their breathing masks.

 QUAIL That's just the start. Next there'll be rain and growth and ...  
life.

Melina embraces him.

QUAIL (continuing) Rekall could never have come up with anything like  
this.

Melina looks oddly at him, smiling, mysterious.

As the sky becomes more and more blue, more of the Miners descend from  
the bus. Softly at first, then with more and more confidence, they 
begin singing  the Martian National Anthem.

The music swells. Quail puts his arm around Melina. They both join in 
the  chorus.

It reaches an impassioned crescendo as the FRAME FREEZES and the END  
CREDITS ROLL UP the screen.

 THE END

Alien 3:

 "A L I E N I I I"

 by

William Gibson

 Revised first draft screenplay

from a story by David Giler and Walter Hill

 
_______________________________________________________________________
__ _____

FADE IN:

DEEP SPACE - THE FUTURE

The silent field of stars -- eclipsed by the dark bulk of an 
approaching  ship. CLOSER.

ANGLE ON THE HULL

A towering cliff of metal, Sulaco.

INT. SULACO -- HYPERSLEEP VAULT

TRACKING down the line of empty, open capsules. Frozen twilight. The  
final four capsules are sealed, lids in place.

ANGLE -- INSIDE CAPSULE

NEWT, then RIPLEY. HICKS next, his head and chest bandaged. Then BISHOP  
in his caul of plastic. But the lid of Bishop's capsule is misted with 
hothouse condensation.

CLOSER

A tear of fluid streaks the condensation.

An alarm SOUNDS.

A monitor begins to scroll data.

TIGHT ON MONITOR

TROOP TRANSPORT SULACO CMC 846A/BETA MISSION/LV-426/RETURN STATUS RED  
TREATY VIOLATION REF: #99AG558L5 CAUSE: NAVIGATIONAL ERROR

Bland feminine voice of the ship's computer, as the alarm continues to  
SOUND.

COMPUTER Attention. Due to failure of navigational circuitry, Sulaco 
has  entered a sector claimed by the Union of Progressive Peoples. 
Auxiliary systems  are now on line. Course corrected. Hardwired 
protocols prevent, repeat, prevent  arming of nuclear warheads in the 
absence of Diplomatic Override, Decryption  Standard Charlie Nine. On 
present course, Sulaco will exit the U.P.P. sector at  nineteen hundred 
hours fifty three point eight minutes.

EXT. SULACO

The ship slides past beneath us. A U.P.P. interceptor descends INTO  
FRAME, matching course and speed with Sulaco. The interceptor settles 
on Sulaco  like a wasp.

INT. INTERCEPTOR

Three commandos climb into spacesuits. The Leader opens a hatch in the  
deck, revealing one of Sulaco's airlocks. FIRST COMMANDO, a young 
Vietnamese  woman, scrambles down and attaches magnetic units to the 
airlock. SECOND  COMMANDO studies a monitor, tapping out a sequence on 
a keyboard. First Commando  gestures from hatch: no good. Second 
Commando tries again. A grating SOUND as  Sulaco's airlock begins to 
open.

INT. SULACO -- CARGO LOCK

Darkness. Armed commandos climb through opening and descend a ladder.  
Reaching the deck, they fan out, weapons ready. Their leader examines 
the damaged dropship. First Commando gestures urgently. She's found 
something.

Bishop's legs, broken, grotesquely twisted, still in fatigues, the 
white  android blood clotted into powder. First and Second Commandos 
exchange looks  through their faceplates.

COMPUTER Attention. Integrity breach, Cargo Lock 3. Security alert.  
Integrity breach, B Deck...

INT. HYPERSLEEP VAULT -- LEADER'S POV

The chilly aisle of capsules.

Commandos move down the line, guns poised. They peer in at Newt, 
Ripley,  and Hicks, but the lid of Bishop's capsule is pearl-white. The 
Leader tries  the controls at the foot of the capsule, where green and 
red indicators glow.  Nothing happens. He opens a panel, finds an 
emergency lever, tries it. The green indicators wink off. The lid 
rises. A dense pale mist flows out, spilling  over the edges of the 
capsule, revealing the ovoid of a gray Alien egg. Rooted  in the center 
of Bishop's synthetic entrails, the egg instantly ejaculates a Face-
hugger, which strikes the leader's faceplate in a spray of acid. He  
screams, blinded by the acid, grappling with the thing as it begins to 
force its  way into his helmet, its tail lashing furiously. Clawing at 
it, he plunges blindly  back down the aisle, stumbling, smashing into 
the empty capsules. He vanishes  through the entranceway, his screams 
giving way to frenzied gagging SOUNDS.

The First Commando scrambles after him.

INT. CARGO LOCK

The Leader writhes on the deck beside the main cargo lock. First 
Commando  rushes in, crouches beside him, takes careful two-handed aim 
with her sidearm --  she FIRES, attempting to kill the face-hugger 
without hitting the Leader. The

face-hugger EXPLODES in a gout of acid; ragged holes burn through the  
side of his helmet. First Commando frantically works the lock controls. 
As the inner  lock opens, she shoves the leader over the edge with her 
foot.

EXT. SULACO

Helmetless, headless, trailing a cloud of blood and acid, the Leader  
tumbles through space.

INT. CARGO LOCK

Eyes of the First Commando through her faceplate. Beat. Something 
moves,  behind her. She spins, bringing up her gun. Backlit in the 
entrance to the  vault, a black, multi-armed figure. The beam from her 
lamp finds it -- the Second Commando, with Bishop in his arms.

DISSOLVE TO:

IN DEEP SPACE -- VARIOUS ANGLES

A station the size of a small moon, and growing; unfinished sections of  
hull are open to vacuum. A vast, irregular structure, the result of the 
shifting  goals of successive administrations.

MOVE IN on hundreds of windows -- most of them dark. A light comes on 
in  one of the windows.

INT. ANCHORPOINT -- TULLY'S SLEEPING CUBICLE

A phone is RINGING. The cubicle, terminally sloppy, resembles the nest 
of  a high-tech hamster, not much larger than a berth of a train. The 
walls are

plastered with a wistful collage of posters, ads, photos torn from  
magazines: beaches, desert, the Grand Canyon, redwoods, blue sky -- a 
hedge against claustrophobia and the emptiness of space.

TULLY, sitting up in bed, knuckling sleep from his eyes, wincing at the  
light; he slaps the phone console and the glum face of OPERATIONS 
OFFICER JACKSON  (female) appears. She wears a nylon baseball cap with 
a computer light-pen  attached to the bill.

JACKSON 'Morning, Tully.

TULLY Morning? Jesus, Jackson, it's the middle of my downtime...

CLOSE ON THE CONSOLE SCREEN

ANGLE

The room behind Jackson is Achorpoint's nerve-center, the Ops Room.

JACKSON None of us up here in the Ops Room have seen downtime for a  
while, Tully. A Marine transport came in on automatic sixteen hours 
ago.

She bobs her head as she speaks, using the pen on her cap to move a  
cursor on a screen in front of her.

JACKSON (continuing) The Sulaco. Departed gateway four years ago with a 
compliment of fifteen. A dozen marines, an android, a company  
representative, and the former warrant officer of a merchant vessel...

TULLY So?

JACKSON So, the bio-readout gives us the warrant officer, one -- count  
him -- marine, and a nine-year-old girl. Makes you wonder what happened 
out  there, doesn't it?

TULLY So ask 'em. Wake 'em up and ask 'em. Them, not me.

JACKSON But that's the good news, Tully. Three hours before Sulaco 
turned  up, we docked a priority shuttle out of Gateway. Two 
passengers. Milisci, Tully.  Weapons Division.

TULLY That the bad news?

JACKSON They want the ship pulled in, with full biohazard precautions, 
by

oh-eight-hundred hours. BioLab techs are priority for the deck squad.  
That's you Tully.

The phone screen goes blank.

TULLY (heartfelt) Shit.

He begins to fumble through his sleeping bag, looking for his clothes -
- disturbing SPENCE, a young technician, who sits up groggily, hugging 
the  bag to her breasts.

SPENCE What? What is it?

TULLY It's called the military-industrial complex; it's called my ass 
out  of bed; it's called jerking me around... Any way you wanna call 
it, it's the same

bullshit...

INT. CORRIDOR

Tully, groggy and irritated, emerges from his cubicle, wearing a 
battered  leather flight jacket, its sleeves plastered with embroidered 
logo-patches for  various products. His photo, name, job description, 
and number are slotted on the  door in a transparent envelope -- TULLY, 
CHARLES A. TECH-5, TISSUE CULTURE LAB.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. ANCHORPOINT -- DRY DOCK

A plain of gray steel, the size of several carrier decks, walls lost in  
dark and distance. Service vehicles lumber past in the b.g. Massive 
floods on  towers of raw scaffolding backlight twenty waiting figures, 
the Deck Squad. Their spacesuits are white, clinical; over these they 
wear disposable Biohazard

Envelopes of filmy translucent plastic. Some are Colonial Marines, 
armed  with pulse-rifles or flame-throwers. Others are scientists and 
technicians,  carrying recording and sampling gear. Their voice, over 
helmet- radio are furred  with STATIC. Something CLANGS and BOOMS 
overhead, metal thunder.

OFFICER (V.O.) Deck Squad brace for pressure drop. She's in the cradle.  
She's coming in.

A sudden WIND rushes across the deck, then dies. RUMBLE overhead as a  
monstrous hanger door rolls slowly open, revealing the naked stars. The 
dark hull  of Sulaco blots out the stars as it descends.

OFFICER (V.O.) (continuing) Entry team to secondary cargo lock.

A cherry-picker vehicle, with extended boom, WHINES up to Sulaco.

The lock SIGHS open on darkness.

BUZZ of static, indistinct RADIO exchanges, as a half-dozen lights play  
over the drop-ship, the walls of the lock. Tully enters, stares around, 
eyes wide  through his faceplate. Beside his is a MARINE with a pulse-
rifle -- obviously  psyched for combat.

TULLY Lights, how come they got no lights?

MARINE Hey, man...

He shines his light on a blackened scar on the bulkhead.

MARINE (continuing) Lookit that. Been some action in here...

TULLY Action?

MARINE Man, what the fuck you supposed to be doing here?

TULLY Forging a new home for mankind in the depths of space.

The Marine isn't amused. Tully raises an instrument; it makes a SUCKING  
noise.

TULLY (continuing) Collecting atmosphere samples.

MARINE So just do it, right.

He move away.

TULLY Sure.

But he doesn't want to be alone; hustles after the Marine.

OFFICER (V.O.) Technician Tully to the hypersleep vault, atmosphere  
sample...

MARINE Sounds like you.

TULLY Yeah.

MARINE Let's not keep the man waiting.

INT. ENTERANCE TO HYPERSLEEP VAULT

The Marine OFFICER holds up a tracker -- one of the small motion-
sensors  familiar from the previous film. Beside him are TWO MORE 
MARINES. The Officer  raises the tracker and scans the face of the 
door.

EXTREME CLOSEUP

of tracker screen: zero.

ANGLE

OFFICER One sample, here.

SOUND of Tully's device sucking air.

OFFICER (continuing) Get another on the way in. Have they patched line 
in  yet?

SECOND MARINE Yessir. Lights on in there.

The Officer presses a button.

The door slides open. Bright, white. The aisle. Empty. The row of  
capsules. Tully's Marine is first through the door, gun ready, slow, 
careful. Tully  steps in after him, raises his instrument, takes a 
sample.

INT. HYPERSLEEP VAULT

The other two Marines move past Tully. Soft SCUFF of their boots on the  
deck. Tully doesn't know quite what to do. Lowers his sampler, 
hesitates. The  first Marine reaches Newt's capsule. He lowers his 
rifle.

MARINE (something startled, almost gentle in his voice) They're here...

Eight inches of razor-sharp serrated tail plunges out through the back 
of  his suit as he's lifted off his feet by something we can't see. 
Ugly RIPPING  noise as the ALIEN withdraws its stinger -- blood tidily 
contained by the  translucent membrane of the biohazard envelope.

The stinger of a second Alien whips around the neck of one of the other  
two Marines; the Alien is clinging to the ceiling. He screams. Tully's 
Marine  sags against the foot of Ripley's capsule, his arm across the 
controls -- the  green indicator lights go out -- as the first Alien 
lunges up INTO VIEW.

CLOSE

On the jaws.

ANGLE ON RIPLEY

Her eyes snap open.

RIPLEY'S POV

As the beast mounts her coffin, terminal nightmare.

ANGLE

RIPLEY No-ooooooooooooooooooooo!

Her hands claw frantically at the smooth curve of the plastic canopy.

The remaining Marine, crazy with adrenaline and terror, unleashes his  
flame thrower. The first Alien and Ripley's capsule vanish in a napalm  
fireball. The Marine spins, screaming incoherently, and liquid fire 
hoses the second  Alien, which drops its victim and falls burning into 
the deck.

The vault is an inferno. Ripley's capsule is sagging, melting.

DISSOLVE TO:

A scorched hypersleep capsule is wheeled in under brilliant lamps. The  
waiting crisis team plug bio-monitor leads and a HISSING air-supply 
line into  sockets on the capsule. A technician with a small hand-held 
power saw begins to cut  away the heat-crazed canopy. Hands in surgical 
gloves lift the canopy away.

Ripley lies curled in a tight fetal knot.

INT. ANCHORPOINT -- MEDLAB QUARANTINE

A small white room, a white bed surrounded by medical gear. Hicks, in 
his

underwear, is hunched on the edge of the bed, impatiently smoking a  
cigarette. The dressing on his head and shoulders have been changed. 
Spence enters.  She wears a biohazard envelope over coveralls, bubble-
goggles, a transparent filter-mask.

SPENCE (lightly) You know you can't smoke in here?  HICKS Yes, ma'am.

He takes a puff.

SPENCE I'm Spence. I'm not a medic, I'm from the tissue culture lab. I  
have to get a sample.

She opens a small white case and takes out a gleaming cylinder.

SPENCE (continuing) Uh, just stick your thumb in here.

Hicks gives her a hard look, inserts his thumb; she touches a stud --  
SNIK! -- he winces, look ruefully at his thumb.

SPENCE (continuing) Sorry. (putting the tissue- sampler away) You're 
the  last one...

HICKS (grabs her wrist) The others. Ripley, Newt -- they came through  
okay?

SPENCE Who's Newt?

HICKS The kid.

SPENCE Rebecca. Rebecca's fine.

HICKS Ripley?

SPENCE (hesitates) Ripley's fine, Hicks.

HICKS Bishop. Where's Bishop?

SPENCE (puzzled) Bishop?

HICKS The android.

SPENCE (carefully, worried that she's gotten in over her head) There 
were  three of you. Three that I know of, anyway. Maybe you should try 
to sleep now.  You want the nurse? They can give you something...

HICKS (leaning forward, still gripping Spence's wrists) Why haven't I  
been debriefed? Where's the brass?

SPENCE All I know is, we've all been sleeping short hours since your 
ship  came in, soldier.

A CRASH from the corridor, a pained BELLOW, and Newt scuttles in, 
wearing  a hospital gown. She backs into a corner as a large ORDERLY 
rushes in,  clutching his right hand. Like Spence, he wears biohazard 
gear.

ORDERLY Goddamn it! She bit me!

He starts for Newt. Hicks comes off the bed like he's mounted on 
springs,  hand cocked for a trained blow. The Orderly backs off.

NEWT (near hysteria) Where's Ripley? Where is she?

HICKS (straightens out of hand- to-hand crouch without losing any of 
the  threat) She's asking you a question.

ORDERLY You looking to get yourself sedated, Corporal?

NEWT Where is she?

HICKS Now I'm asking you the question...

Spence yanks her mask down in a reflexive, very human gesture. Move  
slowly toward Newt, extending her hand.

SPENCE Rebecca... Newt. Honey. It's okay. Ripley's going to be okay.  
C'mon now, I'll take you, you can see her...

ORDERLY Spence, there's no way --

He moves to stop them, but Hicks takes a very deliberate step forward.

INT. MEDLAB -- ANOTHER ROOM

Ripley lies in a coma, monitored by assorted white consoles. Her 
forehead  is taped with half a dozen small electrodes. Newt, 
expressionless, walks  slowly to the bedside as Hicks and Spence look 
on.

SPENCE She's sleeping. (she and Hicks exchange glances) Sometimes 
people  need to sleep... To get over things...

Newt looks up at a monitor that display's Ripley's EEG. Watches the  
jitter of peaks and valleys.

NEWT Is Ripley dreaming?

SPENCE I don't know honey.

NEWT It's better not to.

EXT. RODINA, THE U.P.P. STATION -- VARIOUS ANGLES

Smaller than Anchorpoint.

INT. RODINA - CYBERNETICS LAB

CLOSE on Bishop. He stares straight ahead, the corner of his mouth  
twitching mechanically. PULL BACK. Bishop's torso is mounted in the 
center of a  large square platform; tubes are wires snake from his 
ruined lower ribcage. The  walls of the labs are lined with monitor 
screens and printers.

Information is being reamed out of the android at high speed, printouts  
of measurements, graphs, formulas. COLONEL-DOCTOR SUSLOV is beside the  
Vietnamese Commando, who wears a sleeveless fatigue-blouse revealing 
regimental  tattoos: a yin-yang, hashmarks, an ID marker like a 
supermarket bar-code. They watch  as a graphics program generates a 
detailed anatomical drawing of a face-hugger  on a large monitor. She 
says something short and emphatic in Vietnamese,  repeats it: yes.

SUSLOV And this?

He taps a keypad and the face-hugger vanishes. The screen begins to 
draft  an Alien in side and frontal projections.

FIRST COMMANDO (eyes fixed on the screen in horror and fascination) 
No...

 On the slab, the robotic tic still works the corner of Bishop's mouth.

INT. SULACO -- CARGO LOCK

Two TECHNICIANS in biohazard gear squat on either side of Bishop's 
legs.  An electronic microscope has been set up on a low tripod. A 
small monitor  displays magnified skin and a few dark gobules. One 
Technician extracts an  ultra-fine probe from its sterile package and 
leans forward.

TECH WITH PROBE You getting tape of this, Miller?

SECOND TECH You bet your ass. Orders.

TECH WITH PROBE That's good because I'd swear I just saw a piece of 
this  shit move...On the monitor, the tip of the probe trembles, 
brushes one of the globules. The Second Tech takes it, inserts it in a 
plastic tube, seals  the tube in a small metal canisters, and writes 
#17 on the side in red grease pen.

 SECOND TECH Since when do androids get diseases?

TECH WITH PROBE I dunno. Sure looks like something got to this poor  
bastard...

INT. ROSETTI'S OFFICE CUBICLE

COLONEL ROSETTI, Colonial Marines, is Anchorpoint's head of military  
operations. His office is furnished in the best futuro-Pentagon style: 
imitation  rosewood, division insignia plaques, a desktop model of the 
drop ships from  "Aliens."

Rosetti glances up from his monitor as his SECRETARY enters, a young  
woman in semi-dress Marine uniform.

SECRETARY (hands him a stiff red plastic envelope) Welles and Fox,  
Colonel. Military Sciences, Weapons Division.

Rosetti eyes the envelope with evident distaste, scrawls his signature 
in  the required box before opening it, removes documents, and the 
empty envelope  back.

ROSETTI Show them in.

Secretary exits.

ROSETTI'S POV -- CLOSEUP

on two plastic microfiche cards, each with front and side views of Fox  
and Welles, retinal I.D. images, scaled-down fingerprints, etc. Stamped  
"MILISCI, WEAPONS DIV."

FOX (O.S.) Kevin Fox, Colonel.

ROSETTI'S POV -- FOX

is tanned, athletic, hyperconfident, his smile a heart-less display of  
state- of-the-art enamel-bonding techniques. WELLES is just behind him.

WELLES Susan Welles.

Same spa-tuned look, same expensive casualwear.

ROSETTI (flatly, with no other effort at greeting) Welcome to  
Anchorpoint.

Fox and Welles seat themselves without waiting to be asked.

FOX We're impressed, Colonel. Susan and I are definitely impressed.

WELLES The videos don't really give you an idea of the scale, do they?

She might as well be talking about a tour of Notre Dame.

FOX But we're particularly impressed with your handling of the 
situation,  the situation so far. We're impressed with you 
cooperation...

ROSETTI (flicking the cards down on his desktop with suppressed  
hostility) We call it "following orders."

WELLES Yes. It would simplify things if everyone did, wouldn't it?  
Particularly the civilian component of that Deck Squad. I think we may 
have a  potential problem there...

FOX We've been going over psyche profiles, Colonel. Anchorpoint seems 
to  be the kinds of project that attracts... idealists.

ROSETTI (with a thin grin) Liberals.

WELLES Let's just say we've noticed a certain antipathy to Military  
Sciences, Colonel. A certain lack of sympathy with the goals of the 
Weapons  Division...

ROSETTI Anchorpoint is under Colonial Administration authority. This  
isn't a military operation. If it were, we'd be in violation of the 
Strategic  Arms Reductions treaty.

FOX Looks great on paper, Colonel, but we want the civilians who 
boarded  Sulaco sewn up. Tight.

WELLES Forfeit of shares, for starts. Anyone talks, they lose their  
shares. We've found it reasonably effective, in most cases...

FOX (taking a sheaf of printout from his attach_) But that's a simple  
matter. This isn't. Sulaco's data base indicates a boarding operation 
en route,  Colonel.

ROSETTI A boarding operation? Why wasn't I informed?

WELLES We're informing you. You seem to have lost an android, Colonel.  
The Union of Progressive Peoples have Bishop...

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. ANCHORPOINT -- ENTRANCE TO ANTI-BUGGING BUBBLE

A MARINE ushers Hicks into a large bare chamber. Hicks wears his dress  
uniform. The room is dominated by the bubble, a mirrored sphere.

MARINE This way, Corporal.

The Marine leads Hicks up a gangway. Hicks enters the bubble. The 
Marine  closes the door behind him.

INT. THE BUBBLE

Three members (Rosetti, TRENT, SHUMAN) of Anchorpoint's directorate are  
seated at a round table; with them are Fox and Welles. Hicks comes to 
attention and

salutes.

ROSETTI At ease, Hicks. Be seated. My name is Rosetti. Station's 
military

attach_. From my right: Trent, exobiology... Shuman, Diplomatic 
Corps...  From your right...

FOX I'm Kevin Fox, Hicks. This is Susan Welles. We're with the Company.  
We'd like to congratulate you on a successful mission.

HICKS Successful? I lost my squad in that hole...

WELLES But you returned, Corporal. And you've rescued the colony's sole 
survivor...

ROSETTI (picks up a sheaf of printout) We've all read the transcript of  
you debriefing, Hicks...

HICKS Where's Bishop? Sir.

ROSETTI (blinks) If you don't mind, Hicks, we'll table that until --

TRENT I've read the transcript. Are you certain, Hicks, that you have  
nothing more to tell us about the alien's life cycle? Detail, Hicks. 
Detail is  crucial...

ROSETTI Trent, the subject is classified. Corporal Hicks' security 
rating  need to be upgraded before we can --

HICKS (ignoring Rosetti, he addresses Trent) I've already told you  
everything I know.

ROSETTI Hick --

FOX Let the Corporal have his say, Colonel. After all, he's seen these  
creatures in action.

ROSETTI You ordered the subject classified Maximum Security, Fox.

TRENT I seriously doubt the Corporal Hicks knows anything more than 
he's  already told us. Which is a great pity. But the android, Bishop, 
was designed for

scientific observation. A Hyperdyne model A/5, a walking data bank...

WELLES Corporal Hick asked the right questions to begin with.

ROSETTI (stiffly) To answer your question, Hicks: we aren't certain.

WELLES (heavy sarcasm) But we can guess, can't we Colonel?

HICKS (to Welles) Where?

FOX Rodina station.

HICKS The U.P.P.? What's the U.P.P. got to go with this?

ROSETTI Sulaco's navigation system failed. You were in disputed 
territory  for something over eighty-five minutes, Hicks. The U.P.P. 
would ordinarily  respond to that as a violation of their space. So far 
there's been no protest.  Nothing. (he hesitates) Sulaco's computer 
indicates a covert boarding operation...

FOX "Indicates"...

SHUMAN To put it in diplomatic terms, Hicks, they've got our ass in a  
sling. If they want to regard the Sulaco incident as a hostile act -- 
and let me  assure you that they will, eventually -- they can 
compromise our position in the  current round of arms reduction talks. 
We're talking serious ramifications here.  Then we have the 
communications lag to and from Earth. A week either way. So  we're 
looking at a fourteen day wait for policy clarification. We may have a  
major crisis on our hands.

WELLES We arrived with a policy brief, Shuman, and you've seen it. 
We're  here to implement that brief.

ROSETTI And you orders predate knowledge of U.P.P. involvement.

FOX We're here to do our job, Colonel.

SHUMAN In this case, "doing your job" might involve the distinct  
possibility of precipitating nuclear war --

ROSETTI (quick to break in; the subject's too sensitive for enlisted  
ears) Any further questions for the Corporal? No? In that case, 
Hicks...

HICKS Sir.

Hicks stands, salutes.

INT. ACHORPOINT -- R & R ZONE, "THE MALL"

Tully slopes along looking haggard and spaced. He wears his trademark  
jacket. The Mall is a cross between a Hyatt atrium and an airport 
shopping concourse:  shops, vegetation, fast food outlets, a bar. He 
arrives at what are apparently  elevator doors. The doors open on a 
miniature subway car. Tully steps in and the  doors close.

INT. TISSUE CULTURE LAB

Spence is working with cultures. Her arms are up to the elbows in a 
pair  of white gloves mounted in round openings on the side of a 
transparent plastic  tank. She looks up as Tully enters.

TULLY Hey.

SPENCE You look like homemade shit. (she withdraws her hands, the 
gloves  pop out) What happened down there, Tully? There's some kind of 
security blackout  on...

TULLY Yeah. And I'm part of it... I can't tell you anything. Had to 
sign  a whole new set of papers. Talk to anybody and I lose my shares. 
All my shares,  right?

SPENCE You joking, Tully?

TULLY Wish I were... (changes the subject) What's the old man got for 
me  to dick around with this shift?

She crosses to a lab bench and takes something from a white wire 
basket.

SPENCE Here. All yours. Orders are, you use the manipulators for this.

She hands him something wrapped in a sheet of white printout held with 
a  rubber band. He removes the band, unrolls the paper. The canister. 
Number 17.

SPENCE (continuing) What the hell did happen on the ship, Tully? How 
come  all the biopsy work on those three? and his very quiet sudden 
backlog of autopsy material? How come it's all triple-classified? 
What's going on? We had  these two spooks from Gateway in here today 
acted like they just bought the  place...

TULLY (with a nervous glance around the lab) Okay, okay... But later,  
okay? Not here...

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. TISSUE CULTURE LAB

Tully at the controls of a pair of high-tech servo-manipulators visible  
through the tick glass of an ultra-heavy duty rectangular tank. The 
controls are  gloves. A cable leads from the wrist of each glove to the 
face of the tanks.  Tully move his hands, testing. The skeletal steels 
waldos inside the tank mimic each  move. He uses them to open the 
canister. An electronic microscope is built into  the tank, its monitor 
just above the window. He positions the probe's tip  under the 
microscope.

ANGLE OVER TOP OF MONITOR

for his reaction.

TULLY Spence... What is this? Where did it come from?

Spence strolls up behind his with a cup of coffee, a pen tucked behind  
her ear.

SPENCE C'mon, Charlie, don't you read the spec sheets anymore? It's off  
the shop. Off your transport. It's... God.

SPENCE'S POV -- CLOSE ON THE MONITOR

The tip of the probe is encased in a sheath of glittering back 
filigree.

ANGLE

SPENCE Up the rez...

Tully taps a lapboard; magnifications increases by twenty powers.

EXTREME CLOSEUP -- MONITOR

As the screen fills with an image that might be a bizarre landscape, 
its  lines and textures recalling the interior of the derelict ship in 
"ALIEN."

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. ECO-MODULE

An experimental pocket Eden: a half-acre of artfully ragged concrete  
Disneyland into lush rainforest, sun-dappled miniature meadows, patches 
of African  cactus. Newt crouches in long grass, her hand extended 
toward a small animal. A  lemur. Hicks stands nearby.

NEWT Have you been there, Hicks? Africa?

HICKS Morocco. Four weeks of Basic. But was mountains. Not like this.

The lemur scoots away, spooked by his voice; Newt watches as it 
scurries  up a tree.

NEWT I'd like to go there...

HICKS No problem. You're going to Gateway station on Sulaco, right? 
Then  you catch a shuttle down and you're in Oregon. Just a jump over a 
puddle, to  Africa, once you're there.

Spence walks out of the miniature jungle, carrying a white wire tray of  
samples in plastic lab bottles.

NEWT I don't remember them...

SPENCE Your grandparents?

Newt nods.

SPENCE (continuing) Well, guess they remember you. Sure.

NEWT But what if Ripley wakes up and I'm not here? Can't I wait?

HICKS Hey. She'll know where you're going, right? Anyway, Sulaco's the  
only ship back to Gateway for two months. But look, you want to make 
double sure,  then you leave her a map, exactly where you're going...

Spence grins at Hicks.

INT. NEWT'S DORM CUBICLE

Newt at a fold-down desk, at work on an elaborate multicolor feltpen  
starmap. A dotted line zigzags from Anchorpoint to Portland, Oregon. 
She carefully  prints her new address:

NEWT JORDEN c/o MR. & MRS. RICHARD JORDEN 34877 GREENLEAF AVE. #582 NEW  
PORTLAND, OREGON AB994J2

Ripley wan and comatose. Hicks waits awkwardly in the doorway, dangling  
Newt's knapsack, as she enters and tapes the finished starmap to the 
wall; the  first thing Ripley would see, waking. Newt beside the bed, 
look down at her  friend.

NEWT Ripley? Ripley, it's Newt. I... I gotta go now. I'm going to stay  
with my grandparents, in Oregon. Hicks says that's a good place... 
There's a map  for you, Ripley, how to get there. You can come there 
and stay with me, okay? You  have to, okay?

Tears on her cheeks as Hicks puts his hand on her shoulder and they 
leave  the room.

INT. DEPARTURE BAY

Newt and Hicks amid a bustle of power-loaders, assorted robot vehicles.  
They approach the entrance to a narrow corridor. Sign: DEPARTURE BAY -- 
CREW  ONLY BEYOND THIS POINT.

HICKS That's you.

NEWT I know.

HICKS Good luck in Oregon.

He holds the red knapsack as she slips into the straps.

NEWT Hicks...

HICKS Yeah?

She look at him: ghost of a grin. She gives him the thumbs-up sign.

NEWT Affirmative.

He returns the sign

HICKS Affirmative.

She turns and makes her way up the narrow boarding corridor. It's long,  
tapers to nothing. Tiny figure, receding, bright dot of the knapsack. 
She turns,  waves. He waves back. She's gone.

EXT. ANCHORPOINT

Sulaco pulls away, begins to accelerate, dwindles against the stars.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. RODINA -- CONFERENCE CHAMBER

Cigarette-smoke drifts above a long narrow table in a narrow space. A  
half- dozen ranking TECHNOCRATS are jammed along wither side in folding 
chairs, with Colonel-Doctor Suslov at the head.

BRAUN (Rodina's chief of R&D) Obviously, Colonel Doctor, the purpose of  
their mission was to obtain specimens of this lifeform. The android 
dissected a  single specimen. One of the pre-larval forms -- like the 
thing that killed  Lenko.

AN OFFICER And you believe that these creature are of potential 
military importance?

BRAUN Yes, provided it's possible to clone the alien spores recovered  
from the android's skin and clothing...

SUSLOV With the goal of programming these "machines" for use as 
weapons?

BRAUN The adult form, Colonel-Doctor, is evidently a killing-machine of  
great strength, extraordinary sophistication. No evidence of 
intelligence.  Purely instinctual.

INTELLIGENCE OFFICER Our sources in the corporationist infrastructure 
are  aware of the existence of a special project with Weyland-Yutani's 
Weapons  Division. We have been unable to penetrate their security...

SUSLOV The Intelligence Officer suggests that this special project  
concerns the alien?

DIPLOMATIC OFFICER I remind you, Colonel-Doctor, that we experiment 
with  the alien genetic material only if we are prepared to violate 
primary  biological warfare limitations in the Strategic Arms Reduction 
treaty...

BRAUN An I reminds the Diplomatic Officer that the Weyland Yutani  
corporation is obviously prepared to do so -- that they may already be 
doing so... As  ever, our level of technology lags slightly behind that 
of the capitalist  cartels... But now, by chance --

MILITARY OFFICER By chance? You refer to the proven bravery and 
constant initiative of our People's Commando Division --

BRAUN (smoothly, a seasoned political infighter covering his bases) Not  
at all, Major. Their courage is unquestioned. Nonetheless, consider: we 
are in  possession of a potential weapon -- a whole new technology, if 
you will -- which  Weyland Yutani clearly intends to develop. We are 
in, as they might put it, on  the ground floor. But only if we choose 
to be, if we choose to hold our advantage.

SUSLOV I agree. We have no choice but to proceed.

DIPLOMATIC OFFICER Then I go on record as strongly advising that the  
android be returned to Anchorpoint. Are ourtechnicians capable of 
repairing the  thing?

BRAUN Repairing it? Why?

DIPLOMATIC OFFICER You lack a sense of the importance of gesture, 
Braun.  Let us avoid their customary accusations of barbarism... And 
buy ourselves  time...

SUSLOV Our technicians will repair the thing. Return it to them... And 
we  will proceed. We will clone the alien...

INT. ANCHORPOINT -- TISSUE CULTURE LAB

TRENT, head of BioLab, Rosetti, and Fox wait, seated, as Tully wheels a 
Holographic Display Module into position. The lights dim. A faint,  
ghostly cube shimmers in front of the three men.

TRENT Initially this was merely routine, you understand. We attempted 
to determine its compatibility with terrestrial DNA.

FOX What kind of DNA exactly, Doctor?

TRENT Human, of course.

Something shivers and shakes and takes form in the cube of light: a  
double helix threaded with green and red beads of light.

TRENT (continuing) Watch closely, please.

The alien genetic material looks like a cubist's vision of an art deco  
staircase, its asymmetrical segments glowing Day-glo green and purple.

ROSETTI That's a biological structure? More like part of a machine...

The alien form makes contact with the human DNA. The transformation is  
shockingly swift, but its stages can still be followed: the thing seems 
to pull  itself into and through the coils, and for an instant the two 
are meshed, locked, and  then the final stage. A new shape glows, a 
hybrid; the green and red beads  have been altered beyond recognition.

FOX Like a high-speed viral takeover...! What's the real-time duration 
on  this, Trent?

TULLY (from the shadows beyond the glowing cube) That was it. What you  
see is what you get. That's how fast it is...

INT. ANCHORPOINT -- MACHINE SHOP

Hicks enters the cavernous shop, dodging out of the way of an emerging  
power- loader. The place is an oily forest of steel; machines of 
various kinds  await repair. WALKER is at a workbench, a big man in a 
grease-stained vest.

HICKS Hicks. Temporary duty assignment.

Walker works the joystick on a handheld remote control unit. An 
unmanned power-loader comes to life and lumbers toward the bench. He 
brings it to  a halt expertly, exactly where he wants it, with few 
casual twiddles of the  stick.

WALKER Walker. Know how to blow out the hydraulic lines on a  force-
feedback system?

HICKS No.

WALKER Never too late to learn.

He offers Hicks a cigarette, lights it for him with a micro-torch from  
the bench.

WALKER (continuing) You off the mystery ship, Hicks?

HICKS Sulaco? What's the mystery?

WALKER (lighting his own cigarette) Popular question. Whole thing's 
triple-classified now and word's getting around that two of the deck  
party never came back.

HICKS (shrugs) I was iced.

WALKER Sure...

HICKS You ready to show me his feedback system?

WALKER (eyes Hicks narrowly) Anytime.

INT. OPS ROOM

PAN along Jackson's multi-screen array in Operations, video images of  
various Anchorpoint locales: space-suited figure and robot welders 
making routine  hull repairs.

HIGH ANGLE -- THE MALL

A buzzer SOUNDS. Screen directly in front of Jackson displays:

INCOMING TRANSMISSION SOURCE: U.P.P. RODINA DIPLOMATIC INCRYPT>>> 
>>>DIPL  CORPS SHUMAN

Jackson bobs her head, moving the cursor-cap to various "windows" on 
the  screen.

JACKSON (speaking into headset mike) Somebody find me Shuman -- tell 
his  we got incoming Rodina coded standard diplomatic. His opposite 
number must've  decided it's time for the weekly bullshit session...

INT. ANTI-BUGGING BUBBLE

Shuman is seated alone at the round table. A miniature video camera is  
set up on the table. Opposite him is a large wall screen displaying an 
image of the  U.P.P. Diplomatic Officer, also alone, seated at the far 
end of the narrow table  in the Rodina conference room.

SHUMAN Androids, by law, are afforded the status of persons. Citizens.

DIPLOMATIC OFFICER Under your system, yes. We prefer to afford them the  
status of machines.

SHUMAN You're holding one of our citizens captive.

DIPLOMATIC OFFICER The "citizen" in question, the synthetic, Bishop, 
has  been held in regard to a treaty violation involving an armed 
vessel.

SHUMAN Sulaco was homing on Anchorpoint. The so-called violation was 
the  result of a malfunction.

DIPLOMATIC OFFICER The matter is under investigation.

SHUMAN I repeat: you are holding one of our citizens.

DIPLOMATIC OFFICER The incident is also being investigated with regards  
to an apparent violations of the Strategic Arms Reductions treaty.

SHUMAN Sulaco's weapons-systems fall entirely within the prescribed --

DIPLOMATIC OFFICER I refer to those sections of the treaty concerned 
with

biological warfare.

Beat. The U.P.P. Diplomat has just scored, but Shuman maintains his  
poise.

SHUMAN The allegation is false.

DIPLOMATIC OFFICER We make no official allegations at this time. The  
matter remains under investigation. Bishop, however, is of no further 
use in the

inquiry. We are returning him to you.

EXT. ANCHORPOINT -- SHUTTLE BAY -- A U.P.P. SHUTTLE

docking. They bay closes behind it. (V.O.: STATIC, VOICES of 
Anchorpoint  docking crew.)

INT. SHUTTLE BAY

Shuman and two Marines enter the bay. They wear biohazard envelopes,  
masks. The shuttle's hatch opens and the Vietnamese Commando steps out. 
Bishop  emerges. He looks at the Commando, then at Shuman and the 
Marines waiting at the  bottom of the gangway. The Commando gestures: 
go.

SHUMAN You're under quarantine orders, Bishop. (to the Marines) Escort  
him to MedLab.

INT. THE MALL

Hicks has just come off shift; the Mall's bar catches his eye. The 
facade  says it all: ye olde pre-packaged genuine simulated wood-grain 
generic tavern and  the only joint in town.

One wall is a screen showing a stale rerun of a Brazilian soccer match.  
Some of the customers play hologram game-consoles. Tully is seated at 
the bar.  Hicks takes a stool beside him.

HICKS Beer.

He fishes his dog tags out and detaches one, passes it to the 
bartender;  the bartender inserts it in a terminal, rings up the beer, 
hands it back.

TULLY You're Hicks. Sulaco...

Tully, in his trademark jacket, is obviously drunk.

HICKS Who're you?

TULLY Tully. Tech Five. Tissue lab. D-fucking-NA. Jesus... Sulaco...  
Lucky.

HICKS Lucky? Who? You lucky, man?

TULLY You. You're one lucky sonofabitch, Hicks.

Knocks back his drink.

HICKS How's that?

TULLY All that way. All the way back here with those... Those fucking  
things, man...

Tully has just gotten his sudden, undivided attention.

HICKS Things? What things?

TULLY Shit... We had to sign. All of us. Lose our fucking shares we 
tell  anybody, right?

HICKS (his whole body tense) They were on the ship...

TULLY Yeah. Jesus. I saw 'em...

Reaches for his glass, but it's empty.

HICKS Where? How many? When?

TULLY (Suddenly remembering his shares) Look, I... (cuts a glance 
around  the bar) Bad place to talk... I gotta go now, leave...

HICKS (grabbing Tully before he can slide off the stool) You aren't 
going

anywhere, buddy.

Tully, sudden energy, not so much at Hicks as at his whole situation:

TULLY I didn't come out here to work on shit like that. Came out here 
to  help design ecosystems, not build designer for the next year... You 
want an  earful? You got it. Shift after next, place called DP-54, 
Level 7 map. Can't talk  here...

He twists out of Hick's grip and into the crowd.

Hicks sits at the bar, staring at his untouched beer.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. THE BUBBLE

Rosetti, Trent, Fox, and Welles.

WELLES And Bishop has agreed to undergo complete physical and chemical  
analysis?

ROSETTI He requested it himself.

FOX Results?

TRENT No irregularities so far. No trace of the alien cellular  
material...

WELLES Tampering, then? Reprogramming? Any new circuits in our Mr.  
Bishop? Any little surprises courtesy of the U.P.P.?

TRENT No. Nothing.

FOX And his data on the Aliens? All there? Intact?

TRENT Yes, it seems to be. But if his memory's been tampered with, we'd  
have no way of knowing. Neither would he...

WELLES In any case, we have to assume that the U.P.P. accessed Bishop's  
memory. That they have the data. They may also have specimens of the 
alien  genetic material...

ROSETTI In other words, you want to get on with your brief, don't you?  
You want Trent to clone the cultures. And you didn't want Shuman at 
this meeting.

FOX This isn't a question of diplomacy, Colonel Rosetti.

ROSETTI Isn't it? A violation of the S.A.R. treaty?

FOX Has anyone mentioned military applications, Colonel? Trent?

TRENT (smiles) No. I think a very nice case can be made for applied  
exobiology. We do have a standing order to study alien life-forms when 
we encounter  them. Preliminary analysis of the material from Sulaco 
reveals a remarkable  adaptive capacity. The potential for cancer 
research alone...

WELLES Imagine, Colonel: if it can be programmed to only kill cancer  
cells...

ROSETTI And what exactly is it you propose to do, Trent?

FOX (before Trent can answer) We'll nourish the cells is stasis tubes,  
under constant observation. We'll terminate them before they become 
embryos...

ROSETTI I see. Cancer research. And our motives are exclusively  
humanitarian. Is that it?

WELLES Colonel, when Shuman gets his reply from Earth, priority will go  
to military development of the Alien. We know that because we know 
where our  orders came from. The decision has already been made.

FOX And potential U.P.P. research in the same direction only adds to 
the  urgency, Colonel.

ROSETTI The decision rests with me.

WELLES Perhaps you misunderstood, Rosetti. The decision has been made.

FOX They won't just break you, Colonel, they'll see to it that it's as  
though your career never happened. They're top people. That can do 
that. And you  know it.

Rosetti, with a long, cold look for both of them; he got the message:

ROSETTI Shuman, of course, will have to be informed.

FOX Of course. "Cancer research"...

INT. MEDLAB -- SCAN UNIT

Bishop patiently undergoes a scan; he lies on his back on a narrow  
support as a massive donut-shaped sensor moves down the length of his 
body. A  life-size color scan-image is displayed on a large screen: his 
"organs."

TECHNICIAN The knees. Looks like they do the joints in polycarbon...

MEDIC How about it, Bishop? Knees okay?

BISHOP Yes...

Tentative smile.

TECHNICIANS Polycarbon. Won't hold up worth a damn...

INT. RODINA -- BIOLAB

smaller than the Anchorpoint lab. Equipment look less advanced. The 
only  light is the yellowish glow from a stasis tube; Braun and two 
assistants are  clustered around the tube, observing the thing 
suspended there: thumb-sized,  grayish-pink. An embryo.

INT. ANCHORPOINT -- A TUNNEL AT THE EDGE OF THE CONSTRUCTION ZONE

Hicks jogs through the tunnel. Its brightly-lit arc of white ceramic  
recalls London tube stations, but the floor is paved smooth and black, 
with  freshly- painted traffic symbols. He passes a woman jogging in 
the opposite  direction, keeps going. Small video cameras are mounted 
at intervals overhead,  panning slowly form side to side. As he 
continues, less of the tunnel is  finished; sections of tile are 
missing, revealing pipes, wiring, structural steel.  Past a certain 
point eh's jogging the raw steel tube, splashing through shallow  
puddles of condensation. Fewer lights, widely spaced. He reaches a 
junction and  pauses, chooses a tunnel.

INT. CONSTRUCTION ZONE CHAMBER -- HIGH, LONG SHOT -- HICKS

comes out of the lit mouth of a tunnel. The space he enters is the size  
of a football stadium, but dark and industrially Gothic. Stacks of 
hull-plate  and geodesic struts. A shower of sparks as he passes a 
robot welder (a la the  machine in the opening sequence of "Aliens"). 
Down the aisle of material and  heavy machinery. Spence is waiting.

SPENCE Hicks.

She's in the shadows, smoking a cigarette.

HICKS You, huh? Why you?

SPENCE I work in the lab with Tully. He couldn't make it.

HICKS Hangover?

SPENCE Sacred... That forfeit agreement he had to sign.

HICKS Doesn't scare you?

SPENCE I haven't signed. Not yet. They've only given them to the ones 
who  saw what happened.

HICKS Why you?

SPENCE Tully's okay, Hicks. I know him. Believe it or not, he doesn't  
scare that easy. He told me what was on that ship, Hicks. What he saw. 
You know what  is was.

HICKS I don't think anybody knows what it is...

SPENCE They've got us growing the stuff. We've been running recombinant  
DNA routines on it, using human genetic material...

HICKS You've been what?

SPENCE (stubbing out her cigarette) Cancer research. Tully says that's  
just a cover. Says it's like trying to cure cancer with a shotgun. 
Anyway,  everybody know those two spooks from Gateway are MiliSci...

HICKS Fox and Welles?

SPENCE Weapons Division. Not even supposed to exist, these days. Not  
officially, anyway.

HICKS (lights a cigarette of his own) I still don't see why you're  
telling me this.

SPENCE Maybe I don't either. It's just... we've got to tell somebody...  
Now there's a rumor somebody came in on a U.P.P. ship today, somebody 
off  Sulaco...

HICKS Bishop...

SPENCE I don't know.

HICKS Maybe Progressive Peoples'll get their own Alien too. Maybe 
they'll  grow some...

SPENCE (horrified) Shit! You'd better hope not...

HICKS Why's that?

SPENCE Their lab gear's five years behind ours. They'd never be able to  
control it.

HICKS Think you can, huh?

SPENCE I don't know...

INT. OPS ROOM

A BLEEP as Tully appears on one of Jackson's screens, looking up at a  
camera in the tissue culture lab.

TULLY Get me some maintenance people down here, will ya? Run a check on  
the stasis system. Pressure differential's off and the read keep 
fluctuating.  And punch it Priority One; Trent'll cover it.

JACKSON (with a characteristic little jerk of her head, light-pen  
winking) Sure. You want a piece of the Superbowl, Tully?

TULLY Nah.

JACKSON Denver...

TULLY Denver? No way. Gimme a tenth on Chicago.

INT. RODINA -- BIOLAB

Braun is seated at a computer, entering data. Suslov is staring into 
the  stasis tube containing the developing Alien.

SUSLOV There's an irony in this...

BRAUN (engrossed in the data) Irony, Colonel-Doctor?

SUSLOV The readiness with which it lends itself to genetic 
manipulation,  Braun. The speed with which its cells multiply.

BRAUN Yes. Remarkable.

SUSLOV As though the gene-structure had been designed for ease of  
manipulation. And this apparently universal compatibility with other 
plasms...

BRAUN (reluctantly abandoning his task) And you find this ironic?

SUSLOV Ironic that we are attempting to program it as a weapon, yes.

BRAUN How is that?

SUSLOV Perhaps it is the fruit of some ancient experiment... A living  
artifact, the product of genetic engineering... A weapon. Perhaps we 
arelooking at  the end result of yet another arms race...

BRAUN A defeatist attitude, Colonel-Doctor. Our project can only  
strengthen the Union of Progressive Peoples...

CLOSE -- THE STASIS TUBE -- A CHEST-BURSTER

is suspended there like an eyeless fetal dolphin.

INT. MACHINE SHOP

Hicks, alone in the shop, mechanically going through the motions of the  
busywork he's been assigned to keep him out of the way.

BISHOP (from the doorway) That's quite a piece of machinery, Corporal  
Hicks...

HICKS (looking up, grinning) That's what we used to say about you. How  
the hell are you, Bishop? Brass said you were snatched by the U.P.P. 
How're things  in the socialist paradise?

BISHOP I was returned. I assume they had no further use for me.

He moves among the silent machines, touching them as he speaks.

BISHOP (continuing) There are rumors, Hicks, that Weapons Division  
intends to develop the Alien.

HICKS (with a glance at the video camera on the wall) Where'd the  
bastards get one, Bishop?

BISHOP One of them managed to board Sulaco, Hicks. Ripley killed it...

HICKS Good for her.

BISHOP She called it "the queen." It was larger than the others. Very  
large. Somehow is deposited genetic material in the ship.

HICKS Then they're stone cold crazy, man. I hear the U.P.P. might try 
it themselves.

BISHOP Given the current state of the arms race, it's entirely 
possible.  I'm programmed to protect human life, Hicks. It's my... 
nature. Everything I  am, everything I know, tells me this experiment 
must be aborted.

HICKS Yeah. I know the feeling.

BISHOP But I can't be entirely sure you can trust me, Hicks.

HICKS You can't what?

BISHOP The U.P.P. may have reprogrammed me. I've been very thoroughly  
examined, of course, but the possibility does exist.

HICKS Wouldn't you know?

BISHOP No. I may be functioning as an enemy agent.

HICKS (beat) What the hell. We have to kill it, don't we?

BISHOP I have to try.

HICKS I'm in man. And I think I know where we can find us a little  
help...

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. TISSUE LAB

Spence and Tully are alone.

SPENCE What coffee? I'm going to the machine.

TULLY No.

He peers into one of the stasis tubes; a small ovoid of tissue 
suspended  there.

SPENCE Maintenance cure your pressure differential problem?

TULLY Said there wasn't any. Said it was a glitch.

SPENCE Didn't want to get his hands dirty?

TULLY It settled down by itself.

Spence exits; Tully moves closer to the tube.

CLOSE -- THE SINGLE DEVELOPING SPORE

inside; it looks like a much smaller version of the alien egg.

WIDER ANGLE

TULLY Hey there. Hi ya. How ya doin'? Nutrient solution agreeing with  
you, hm? We're looking lots bigger today, aren't we? You bet. Terrific. 
Just  absolutely fucking wonderful...

His monologue is interrupted by Welles' entrance; he's startled, looks 
up

guiltily. The heavy glass doors HISS shut behind her.

WELLES Communing with nature, Tully?

TULLY Your not wearing a badge. (taps the plastic ID clipped to his lab  
coat) White strap registers contamination. Turns red if you're 
accidentally  exposed to something. Got it?

WELLES Where's Trent?

TULLY Lunch.

WELLES And how's our friend?

She moves to the stasis tube, looks in.

TULLY Friends. Our little friends. Growing.

WELLES Get me hard copy for the past six hours.

TULLY Sorry. Ask Trent.

WELLES I don't think you understood me, Technician Tully...

She's following him as he nears the main computer console; in the b.g., 
a  stasis tube begins to HISS. CRACKS loudly, a hairline fracture emits 
a superfine  spray of fluid. An alarm SOUNDS.

WELLES (continuing) What does th --

TULLY O Jesus...

Two of the tubes BLOW OUT. Nutrient fluid and plastic shards 
everywhere.  Welles and Tully go down. A louder ALARM cuts in; red 
lights strobe. Locks in  the doors THUNK shut, an automatic containment 
measure, as Spence, outside, throws  down her coffee and begins to 
struggle with the door-controls, trying to reach  Tully. Tully, 
facedown in a pool of the fluid, see that he's nine inches away  from 
the gray pigeon's-egg of alien tissue. His eyes widen. Gets to his 
knees as  carefully as he can. Reaches slowly -- slowly -- sideways, 
manages to snag a pair  of plastic tongs and a shallow lab tray from 
the counter...

Welles tries to scramble to her feet, loses her balance in the slippery  
goop, and snatches at his arm. He nearly falls on top of the thing, but 
cuffs her  roughly away, kneels, tongs poised... Beat. A tiny orifice 
opens; for a  split-second something glitters above the thing, a faint, 
fist-sized cloud of dark  mist. Then it's gone and Tully's moving, 
swooping in with tongs and tray.

SPENCE (V.O.) (intercom) Tully! Tully, Goddamn it! What's happening? 
Are  you okay?

TULLY De-con. Get us down to De-con!

Welles is struggling to her feet.

INT. DECONTAMINATION CHAMBER

Drenched, naked, furious, Welles is nearly invisible behind a scalding  
downpour as techs in biohazard gear scrub her down with detergents and  
antibacterial agents. She shoots eye-daggers at Tully, who's being 
worked over by two  more techs.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. OPS ROOM

Jackson at work. PAN ACROSS screens to security camera view of the DNA  
lab, clean now but minus two stasis tubes -- image identified: TISSUE 
CULTURE / 25  AUGUST / 1900:15 HOURS. Jackson's attention is elsewhere.

INT. A CORRIDOR

Hicks keeps watch as Bishop open a panel, exposing complex wiring; no  
hesitation whatever as he strips two wires, removes a Walkman-sized VCR 
from his  belt, and clips lead to the stripped wires.

INT. OPS ROOM

CLOSE on monitor image of the lab. The picture fuzzes out, scrambles,  
returns -- but now reads: TISSUE CULTURE / 23 AUGUST / 1200:02 HOURS 
and the missing  tubes are back in place.

INT. ENTRANCE -- OUTSIDE LAB

BISHOP We have three minutes at the outside.

HICKS Go.

Bishop punches the code-sequence and the door hisses open; they're  
through, moving.

INT. TISSUE CULTURE LAB

They move down the row of stasis tubes. Bishop pauses when they reach 
the  two units with missing tubes, then quickly moves on. He opens a 
wall panel,  exposing controls and a large, very serious-looking red 
switch. Label above  switch:

STASIS SYSTEM MICROWAVE STERILIZATION

Then, he hesitates. Turning slowly, as if under compulsion, he looks  
back; the line of glowing tubes.

HICKS Do it!

And still he doesn't move... Hicks darts his arm past Bishop, breaking  
the trance and yanking the red switch.

A burst of unpleasant high-frequency SOUND as the fluid in the tubes  
instantly begins to boil.

CLOSE ON ONE OF THE ALIEN CULTURES

as it bursts, disintegrates into a film of slime lost behind a storm of  
bubbles. The lab's ALARM system goes off. The doors slide open as three 
MARINES  cover Hicks and Bishop with handguns.

MARINES Just don't you fucking move, Jack.

Hicks stonefaces the Marines. Then cracks a grin.

INT. DETENTION UNIT

Hicks and Bishop, in white plastic "medical restraints" (like arm and  
leg- irons) precede the grim-faced Marines along a corridor and are 
thrown into  separate cells.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. THE BUBBLE

Meeting of Anchorpoint's full directorate, including Welles and Fox,  
Jackson, and a number of new faces. Welles is white-lipped with fury.

JACKSON They knew the code, didn't they? The code for the door...

FOX You got it, Ops. And they knew just where to go which button to 
push  to poach our eggs for us, didn't they? Struggling with an idea, 
Ops? Think it may  even have been an inside job?

JACKSON You're a Grade A Company prick, aren't you, mister?

(Her bitch truckdriver side; a tough lady, used to taking a lot of  
life-or- death responsibility in her job.)

WELLES The Anchorpoint phase of the project is terminated, Rosetti.  
You'll keep Hicks and the android in solitary until they can return 
with us to  Gateway to stand trial for treason.

TRENT The Anchorpoint phase? What do you mean? We have no more material  
to work with...

FOX You have no more material to work with, Trent. In any case, it's  
become obvious that you aren't quiet the man for the job. We took the 
precaution  of obtaining our own samples. They're on their way to 
Gateway.

WELLES (with cold satisfaction) ... and everything, every move each of  
you have made, since our arrival, is going to be gone over with a fine 
toothed  c-c-c-c--

As Welles begins to stammer, her eyes betray a terrible consternation.  
She rises from her chair, lurches forward, catching herself on her 
hands. The  C-C-C-C-C phases into a chattering palsy as a thick strand 
of blood-streaked drool  descends toward the table. Fox, seated to her 
left, has instinctively shoved his  own chair back, ready to run. 
Everyone else is frozen with shock.

As the chittering tooth-burr becomes a shrill SHRIEK of inhuman rage, 
the

transformation takes place. Segmented biomechanoid tendons squirm 
beneath  the skin of her arms. Her hands claw at one another, tearing 
redundant flesh  from alien talons. Then the shriek dies. She 
straightens up.

And, rips her face apart in a single movement, the glistening claws  
coming away with skin, eyes, muscle, teeth, and splinters of bone... 
SOUND of ripping  cloth. The New Beast sheds its human skin in a single 
sinuous, bloody ripple,  molting on fast forward.

An instant of utter silence as the featureless mask moves. From side to  
side. Scanning.

Trent vomits explosively. The Marine guard snatches his pistol from its  
holster and FIRES wildly across the table. Blind screaming chaos.

OVERHEAD SHOT

as the directorate plunges, like a single panicked organism, to the far  
side of the bubble. The thing is on Fox before he can get up from his 
chair.

CLOSE

On his scream as the sucking, fanged tongue plunges through the orbit 
of  his eye.

ANGLE

A Marine with a flamethrower bursts through the door, torching Fox and  
the New Beast, setting fire to the bubble's acoustic foam baffles.

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE TULLY'S SLEEPING CUBICLE

Spence is coming down the corridor, carrying a clear plastic bag of  
styrofoam food containers. Nobody else in sight. She look tired, but 
not  particularly worried. She reaches the door to his cubicle. Thumps 
on it with the heal  of her hand.

SPENCE Tully! Hey! Open up.. Got you some food...

No reply. She thumps again, then punches the combination (the lock look  
like a telephone key-pad). Door opens. Dark inside.

SPENCE (continuing) Tully? You sleeping?

She climbs in. Dark. Very. A red LED glows on the phone console. She  
crawls through the detritus of Tully's housekeeping and fumbles with 
the lights.  Can't find the switch.

SPENCE Tully?

Lights CLICK on. Nobody there. Nothing. Looks even messier then she 
last  saw it. She sighs, puts the bag of food on a ledge, scoops up a 
mound of dirty  cloths off the pillow in an automatic cleaning-up 
gesture. And sees Tully's lab  badge. Picks it up.

CLOSE ON THE BADGE

The contamination indicator strip is red.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. DETENTION CELL

Hicks sitting on the narrow bunk.  Door opens. One of the Marines who 
arrested his in the lab; he wears  combat armor now.

HICKS What's your problem, bud? Got a war on?

The Marine steps back, admitting a haggard Rosetti.

ROSETTI Get up, Hicks. We need you in the Ops Room.

HICKS We didn't kill it.

ROSETTI No. It killed Fox and Welles...

INT. TUNNEL, CONSTRUCTION ZONE

Small vehicle WHINES TOWARD US through puddles of condensation: a  
skeletal electric motor-jeep with heavy roll bars, scratched and paint-
scarred.  Walker driving. Hick behind him in partial combat armor and 
communication rig,  cradling a pulse-rifle.

Walker is pushing it, driving fast; the jeep bounces and sways, 
skitters  around a corner. Into the gloom of the big construction 
chamber. Halts.

HICKS (into mouthpiece) Gimme a read.

JACKSON (V.O.) (from headset) You're close. Hang a left.

HICKS Is he moving?

JACKSON No...

Walker swing the jeep around and they roll toward a narrow gap between  
massive stacks of geodesic struts.

INT. OPS ROOM

Jackson studies a simulator screen; a moving cursor, the Jeep, 
navigates  a 3D grid-representation of the construction zone.

JACKSON No left again.

The cursor turns. Nears a blinking red dot.

Spence, drawn and anxious, looks over Jackson's shoulder. Bishop and  
Rosetti are beside her.

SPENCE You're sure it's him?

JACKSON It's his locator frequency, isn't it? No two alike. Surgically  
implanted. Just like yours...

SPENCE (gnaws at her lip) He's not moving...

ROSETTI Why would he go down there?

BISHOP The badge. He knew that he's been infected...

SPENCE Scared. He's scared. (shudders) Tully...

INT. CONSTRUCTION CHAMBER

Dark. The Jeep creeps along between stacks of prefab hull units, 
emerges  into a open space, junctions of several corridors. The deck is 
an inch deep in  water.

JACKSON (V.O.) He's there! You're right on top of him!

Walker stops the jeep. Hicks stands up, plays the beam of a flashlight  
around the area. Presses the mute button on his headset.

HICKS (bellows) Tully! Tully! Yo!

ECHO. DRIP of water.

Hicks clips the flashlight beneath the barrel of his gun and jumps 
down. Reflections ripple as he moves forward. Swings the beam along the 
surface  -- something there... The logo-patches down a sleeve of 
Tully's ruptured, blood-soaked leather jacket. Drifting shred of human 
tissue...

JACKSON (V.O.) Can you see him?

HICKS Yeah.

And the thing that was Tully launches itself from the top of one of the  
stacks of construction material. Lands on top of the jeep, going for 
Walker,  through the roll bars.

CLOSEUP ON JAWS

CLOSEUP

as the thing's tail lashes past Walker's face, taking a nick out of a  
steel bar.

on the controls, a pair of levers: he yanks one back, shoves the other  
forward, thumbs both drive buttons simultaneously.

ANGLE

The jeep (separate drive-trains for each wheel) pulls two three-sixties  
on a dime, hurling the thing toward Hicks. It smashes into the desk, 
splash of  water, leaps for Hicks instantly. The charge from his pulse-
rifle takes it in  mid-air, hideous bile-yellow spurt of acid... And it 
hits the water again with a  terrific EXPLOSION of steam. The jeep 
lurches out through the steam, engines  SCREAMING, wheels losing 
traction through the puddle, throwing up fantails of water,  nearly 
overturning. Hicks jumps, snags a roll bar, empties the pulse-rifle's  
clip into the steam on full-auto as Walker hauls ass back down the 
corridor...

JACKSON (V.O.) Hicks! What's happening?

INT. OPS ROOM

JACKSON Hicks? Hicks!

CLOSE ON SCREEN

as the jeep-cursor speeds away from Tully's blinking locator-dot.

Spence's eyes fixed on the screen as she makes a serious stab at  
swallowing her own fist.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. RODINA -- BIOLAB

VERY SLOW PAN past monitors -- one flickering like a defective strobe,  
the other displaying a readout in Russian -- past an overturned mug on 
a keyboard,  past assorted equipment, past the shattered ruin of the 
big stasis tube, to  Suslov and Braun cocooned in a glittering biomech 
structure of alien resin. Braun is  dead, his rib cage gaping.

SCEAMS and the HAMMER of automatic weapons. Station crew fleeing in 
panic  enter through one door, crash into tables, scattering trays of 
food, claw at  one another to escape through another door. The 
Vietnamese commando and her  partner are last into the room; they spin 
in unison and FIRE back through the  door. SOUND of rending metal and 
loud inhuman RAGE.

The commandos scramble for the far door as the alien crashes into the  
mess: a new form, the result of Suslov's genetic tinkering. Bigger. 
Meaner. Faster.  Able to reproduce more quickly.

The frantic crew are climbing a ladder. The commandos start up the  
ladder. They climb through a circular hatch. Like the deck they stand 
on, the hatch is  made of heavy steel expansion-grid. The alien swarms 
up the ladder, slams into  the hatch just as the commandos close and 
lock it. The alien keeps on slamming. The  steel begins to bulge and 
tear...

INT. ANCHORPOINT -- OPS ROOM

Hicks, Bishop, Rosetti, Shuman, and Jackson.

JACKSON Cant's raise 'em, boss.

SHUMAN Try the diplomatic codes...

JACKSON Diplomatic codes? They aren't responding to Mayday 
International.  Maybe they've got a transponder down, but -- hey, check 
this, outgoing  traffic... (she bobs her head, taps her lapboard) It's 
a squirt transmission... Military decryption standard.

ROSETTI What do they have in the area?

JACKSON (taps up a fresh screen of data) Not much. Automated mining  
system working NC-313... Test module for a terraforming operation 
enroute  MV-45... And, here we go, the battle cruiser Nikolai Stoiko. 
Nine hours from Rodina if  they push it.

HICKS What I wanna know is, what do we have in the area?

JACKSON (another screen of data) Not much. How about the Kansas City,  
Colonel Admin transport? We hit her with a mayday, she'll get here 
inside twenty  hours.

HICKS Then what?

ROSETTI We abandon the station.

HICKSDestroy the station, man! We got nukes?

ROSETTI Outlawed under the Strategic Arms Reduction treaty.

JACKSON We can fiddle the overrides on the fusion package. Baby nova.

BISHOP We're dealing with a new form, Colonel. We know nothing of this  
new mode of reproduction. Others may have already become hosts...

ROSETTI What are you suggesting?

BISHOP In order to be entirely certain, Colonel, it would be necessary 
to

override the fusion package now.

Jackson looks up at Bishop; he's suggesting mass suicide.

HICKS I thought you were programmed to protect human life?

BISHOP (with android blandness) I'm taking the long view.

Jackson's console CHIMES, begins to display new data, ID shots of three  
crew members.

JACKSON Missing persons. (she taps her way through windows of data) Two  
were members of the clean-up crew who did the lab after the blowout. 
Third  doesn't check... No, wait. Lives with one of the first two.. But 
that makes a  total of fifteen... Something's happening...

HICKS Goddamn, Rosetti, it's catching!

ROSETTI (ignores him) Mayday Kansas City, Jackson.

HICKS What about Sulaco?

SHUMAN It would take two days to raise her.

HICKS (bitterly) With that shit on board.

ROSETTI Gateway will have our warning before Sulaco arrives.

SHUMAN Fine, Colonel. And who do you suppose will be willing to take it 
seriously? Weapons Division?

JACKSON Hey, I'm getting something! The socialist space brothers speak 
at  last...

Her main screen flickers and jumps; the speakers hill with a roar of  
STATIC --

JACKSON (continuing) Their transmission standards get worse all the --

She falls silent as the screen clear, revealing a young Slavic madwoman  
-- one of Suslov's lab assistants -- in blood-drenched coveralls. Jerky 
handheld  video, grainy transmission, indistinct background. She 
clutches a sheet of  paper, reads aloud from it in a foreign language.

SHUMAN Get a translation program on line, Jackson!

Jackson's already punching. An instantaneous computer translation cuts 
in  as V.O.; the girl's lips move, out of sync, like a cheap dub; the  
transmission is rendered in flat synthi-voice.

CLOSE UP ON SCREEN

SPOKESWOMAN ... of Progressive Peoples. Technician First Class, Tatjana  
Malik. Please, we wish to inform you: we have undertaken an experiment 
with  genetic material obtained from the military transport vessel... 
We attempted to  clone the xenomorph in stasis. Failure of the stasis 
system occurred in the  fifteenth hour... Attempted modification of the 
genetic structure has resulted in a  variant which replicates rapidly, 
more rapidly... (and here, horribly, she  smiles) It has... taken... 
most of us. Those of us who remain... We wish to warn  you: you must 
terminate any experiment with the material now. It is impossible. It  
cannot be contained. There is no --

The image flickers, vanishes.

ANGLE

JACKSON Lost 'em. That's it... Goddamnit, she was just a tech. Their  
brass didn't bother...

HICKS No brass left...

JACKSON And you better check this, Hicks.

Her other screens display assorted images of nearly identical tunnels 
and

passageways, but three of them are black; she gestures to the dark  
screens.

JACKSON (continuing) This is down by the main air-scrubber. System says  
those cameras are still operational, but there's something in the way.  
Something big...

EXT. ANCHORPOINT -- ECO-MODULE

Huge louvers pivot smoothly, like Venetian blinds, revealing lush  
vegetation through thick plastic...

INT. ECO-MODULE

Spence sits cross-legged in Newt's meadow, tearfully hugging a small 
tame

primate. Light crosses the meadow as the louvers open overhead, beyond  
the geodesics. Artificial dawn. BIRDS begins to sing. Quiet before the  
storm...

EXT. RODINA

No sign of movement.

Dimly lit. Clutter of spacesuits, machinery. The Vietnamese commando  
seated on the floor, back to the wall, cradling her gun. The corpse of 
her partner  is sprawled on the deck beside her, face hideously burned, 
his armor  fretworked with acid. Her face is blank, eyes straight 
ahead.

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. ANCHORPOINT

The station.

INT. ANCHORPOINT -- MEDLAB -- CORRIDOR

Hicks, still in his fighting gear, walking purposefully. MedLab staff 
in  hospital whites dubiously note his passage.

INT. MED LAB -- RIPLEY'S ROOM

Ripley comatose, still hooked up to assorted biomonitors, the only  
movement in the room the restless flicker of a bank of colored diodes.

Hicks enters, crosses to the bed, seems about to speak, makes a 
helpless  little gesture with his hands -- then yanks the biomonitor 
leads from the  bedside console. The diodes go out; a buzzer begins to 
SOUND. The bed is mounted  on casters. He starts to pull it out of the 
room. Stops. Looks up at Newt's  map on the wall.

He rips the map from the wall and stuffs it into her hospital gown.

INT. MEDLAB -- CORRIDOR

Hicks hustles Ripley through MedLab, not about to stop for anyone;  
startled staff jump out of the way.

INT. ANCHORPOINT -- ANOTHER CORRIDOR -- ENTRANCE TO A LIFEBOAT

Signs and notices detailing lifeboat launch procedures. Hicks lifts  
Ripley from the bed, carries her through hatch into lifeboat. Places 
her in a  hypersleep capsule, presses a button. The lid comes down. 
Silent moment as he looks  down at her through the lid, his palm on the 
smooth plastic in a gesture of  farewell, resignation. Then back 
through the hatch, where he activates controls  that seal the boat, 
setting the launch-procedure in motion.

ANGLE on the blunt prows of the lifeboat receding around the curve of 
the

station's hull.

INT. LIFEBOAT BAY

Hicks watching digital countdown. Muted WHUMP of explosive bolts --

EXT. LIFEBOAT

Flash of the bolts as Ripley's boat is launched into the sweep of 
night.

INT. LIFEBOAT BAY

Bishop enters behind Hicks.

BISHOP But can you be certain she hasn't been infected?

HICKS I'll take the chance.

BISHOP Why?

HICKS I owe her one.

INT. OPS ROOM

Jackson at her screens; display as before, the tunnels near the air-  
scrubber -- with three screens dark. CLOSEUP on one tunnel-view as an 
open,  six-wheeled personnel carrier rolls past the video camera, Hick 
looking up. Five  Marines in full battle dress ride with him: ALSOP, 
GREENFIELD, BRICE, COSTELLO,  WALLACE.

JACKSON Next junction, hang a right...

INT. TUNNEL

Dim; light spaced far apart along tunnel. The carrier takes a right.

JACKSON (V.O.) Left at the fork and you wanna take it slow. Fifty 
meters  to whatever's in front of that camera...

Hicks gestures to Wallace, the driver. The carrier halts. SOUND of the  
air- scrubbers from down the tunnel. The Marines shift their weapons, 
uneasily  eye the tunnel ahead. These are young recruits, not the hard-
case vets of  "ALIENS."

HICKS Now listen up. We don't do this by the book, we don't pair off.  
Stay together, tight. Greenfield up front with me; anything moves, you 
torch  it. The rest of you, if it moves, kill it. You gotta get the 
fuckers before they  get close. You know about the acid; you know they 
don't show on infrared. And  you know you don't let them take you 
alive. You might have to do a friend a  favor... Ready? Move out.

He climbs down from the carrier, heavily burdened with gear. The others  
follow. Greenfield has a flamethrower. They move forward. Toward the 
next light;  beyond it, the tunnel curves out of sight.

JACKSON (V.O.) You're right up on it, Hicks. Right around the corner...

HICKS Affirmative...

They round the turn, weapons ready. And stop, stunned.

GREENFIELD Wha' 'th...?

The tunnel, which widens here as it approaches the massive air-
scrubber,  has been transformed; its lights are dimly visible through 
shrouds of resin. Vast  ribs of the stuff sweep up from a dim and 
monstrous shape that covers the deck at  the base of the scrubber; 
we're looking into an Alien grotto, black and  pearlescent, and obscene 
fairyland. The shape's symmetry suggest function. Patient  DRUMMING of 
the air-scrubber's giant fans.

HICKS Scan it. Motion?

COSTELLO (consulting tracker, adjusting knob) Negative.

HICKS Alsop, gimme the flood...

Alsop passes Hicks a portable halogen-flood. Hicks thumbs it on...

WALLACE Holy Christ.

The central shape is revealed as an enormous mutant queen. The thing is  
splayed on its back, mortared into the mass of resin, its vestigial 
head toward  Hicks and the Marines. Its abdomen is arched like an 
inverted scorpion-tail, tipped  with a swollen, semi-translucent sac 
that ripples and pulses in the glare of  Hick's lamp. A biomechanical 
birth-factory.

HICKS (passing the flood to Brice) Hold it... steady.

He kneels, unslings one of his gear cases, open it, revealing a squat  
tube.

HICKS Moving. Something's moving...

Hicks is working on the tube-thing, snapping components into place.

Brice suddenly swings the beam away from the queen, revealing half a  
dozen new-model Aliens twisting out of recesses in the grotto walls...

INT. OPS ROOM

Jackson and Bishop hear SCREAMS and FIRING over the comm-link.

HICK (V.O.) The light! The goddamn light! (garble)

The Aliens tear into the Marines like living chainsaws. Wallace and  
Costello go down immediately; the Aliens begin to drag them away. Hicks 
has gotten  hold of the light, struggles to keep it on the queen as he 
props the tube against  his thigh. SCREAMS. Blue stutter of pulse-
rifles. A tongue of fire from  Greenfield's flamethrower, but an Alien 
jumps him; the napalm-stream arcs wildly,  splashing the resin 
structure -- and the Queen wakes. The huge tail extends, lifts  in the 
floodlight beam...

Hicks is still trying to assemble his mortar.

As the swollen, podlike tail-tip splits open with a sickly, tearing  
SOUND, releasing a puffball cloud of dark mist -- we've seen it before, 
in  miniature, with Tully in the lab -- which begins to rise, drawn up 
toward the giant  fans above the air-scrubber...

INT. OPS ROOM

HICKS (V.O.) Stop the fans!

Bishop is instantly on the case, leaning over Jackson's shoulder to 
punch  the right button, but...

INT. SCRUBBER-TUNNEL

Too late. The cloud of spores is sucked into the fans -- as Hicks drop 
a  shell into the mortar. It bucks against his thigh and the queen is 
blown to  shred in an EXPLOSION that rips out the side of the scrubber.

HICKS The vents! Seal the vents!

INT. OPS ROOM

Bishop's fingers fly as he punches another sequence.

INT. VENT

Straight down the pipe, a long way, to the whirling fans. Huge hermetic  
barriers SLAM across the vent in sequence -- one, two, three.

INT. SCRUBBER-TUNNEL

Hicks scramble to his feet.

HICKS Out! Out of here! Now!

The Marine beside him begins to spasm and quake as the Change comes.  
Hicks SHOOTS him in the chest at close range and sprints for the 
carrier.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. RODINA -- HUB

The Vietnamese commando nears the station's hub. The walls, in one 
large  chamber, are decorated with official U.P.P. art, like a blend of 
Mexican  Socialists agitprop murals and Syd Mead techo-fantasy. She 
passes evidence of brief  violent struggle: a wall splashed with dried 
blood, a single shoe, smashed  equipment, ragged acid-scars in the 
deck.

She looks like a child now, moving through all this, small and alone. 
But  not helpless: she still moves with a cat's wariness, her gun 
ready.

Three face-huggers scuttle across at an intersection of corridors, 
tails thrashing...

She comes to a door that opens onto Rodina's central hub, a large  
cylindrical space surrounding a core of equipment. The door is ajar; 
she edges  through...

Virtually the station's entire crew, perhaps a hundreds people, have 
been

cocooned along the multi-storey column, a bas-relief of human bodies 
and glittering resin.

She stares from a railing, appalled, then slips through the door.

INT. ACHORPOINT -- OPS ROOM

Rosetti, Jackson, Bishop

JACKSON I don't know what they did down there, but it's screwed up  
internal comm-link for the whole area; I can't raise 'em...

One of Jackson's consoles CHIMES; her central screen suddenly glows 
with  a hi-rez simulation of Rodina.

JACKSON (continuing) Rodina's got company...

EXT. SPACE

Silent approach of the U.P.P. cruiser Nikolai Stoiko, a vicious-looking  
mile- long slab of armament. Stoiko slows, comes to an ominous halt.

INT. RODINA

The commando bolts down a corridor. Total desperation. She's lost her  
gun. A CRASH behind her. The beast's shrill RAGE. She throws herself 
through the  first available door -- and sees the interceptor waiting. 
She scrambles up a  ladder, through the hatch, and frantically begins 
to activate systems. Sirens  begin to SOUND in the launch bay. The 
interceptor's hatch closes as the twin gates  of the bay begin to swing 
open -- and the beast is on her, striking at the  view-port in the 
hatch, inches from her face. She flips open a safety- override on the

interceptor's joystick and thumbs a red button.

EXT. RODINA

Total overdrive: the interceptor BLASTS out through the half open gates  
in a fireball of exhaust gases, the beast and the service ladder 
tumbling  after it...

EXT. SPACE -- STOIKO

Something streak from the bow of the cruiser...

INT. ANCHORPOINT -- OPS ROOM

Jackson huddled over her screen.

JACKSON Missile!

EXT. SPACE -- RODINA -- INTERCEPTOR IN F.G.

The U.P.P. missile takes out the station. Whiteout of nuclear 
EXPLOSION;  the interceptor is a black blot tumbling toward us like a 
singed leaf in a whirlwind...

INT. OPS ROOM

The simulation of Rodina on Jackson's screen is surrounded by an  
expanding blue sphere. The sphere stops expanding. The simulation blurs 
into digital  static, fades as the sphere begins to contract...

JACKSON Nuked 'em! Twenty megs! That coded transmission...

ROSETTI Send Mayday.

JACKSON I don't believe it! They send for help, their own people nuked  
'em!

HICKS (quietly) Maybe they asked for it...

ROSETTI That's an order, Jackson!

Bishop looks at Rosetti as though he's about to offer an opinion, but  
doesn't.

JACKSON Maybe they'll nuke us too...

BISHOP No. They're leaving...

EXT. SPACE -- STOIKO

The cruiser begins to move, accelerates, is gone.

INT. OPS ROOM

ROSETTI Bastards!

JACKSON Yeah. And they violated the fucking arms treaty, too, didn't  
they? Well, Colonel Rosetti, how about a situation update? We got, 
lessee, fifty- six  missing crew members as of fifteen hundred hours...

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. THE MALL

Deserted. The only SOUNDS are Muzak and the trickles of an artificial  
waterfall. Some signs of trouble: an overturned trash canister, 
someone's red nylon  baseball cap on the polished concrete.

Walker strolls around a corner beside the bar with a pulse-rifle,  
grenades, and assorted gadgetry slung across his chest. Goes to the bar 
entrance,  nudges the door open with the barrel of the rifle. Nobody 
there. Same soccer game on  the big screen, but the sound is off. 
Silent cheering crowd rising to its feet,  the flicker of the holo-game 
consoles. He glances around the mall, enters.  Crosses to the bar, 
checks behind it, then fishes up a big plastic jug of liquor.  Opens 
it, drink from the jug.

Behind him, a mug topples, CLATTERS on the floor. He slowly lowers the  
liquor to the counter; just as slowly, he turns. A beast is there, 
waiting, beyond  the Glimmer of the holo-games.

Walker and the beast move simultaneously. But he doesn't go for his gun  
-- he grabs the control unit hanging on his chest.

An unmanned power-loader walks straight through the glass facade, 
plowing  tables and chairs out of its way, big vise-grip claws 
extended. The Alien  SCREAMS, leaps for it, but the steel claws close 
and grip.

Walker twiddles the controls; the power-loader responds, pinning the  
Alien against the wall. The Alien writhes and HISSES, striking 
furiously at the

hydraulic arm. Walker tightens the grip, locks the loader in place. 
Picks  up the jug of liquor and has another swallow.

WALLACE Fuck you.  Beat. As his satisfied grin is replaced by something 
else. The Change...

INT. ECO-MODULE

Artificial dusk. Spence is crossing the mirco-meadow with a wire basket  
of food the module's population of small primates. Moths flutter 
through  narrowing beams of sunlight as the louvers gradually close 
overhead. CRICKETS in the long  grass.

She enters the scaled-down forest, ducking branches, and Spanish moss.  
Begins to make Tk-tk-tk sound, calling the lemur, the monkeys...

And stops. Suddenly aware of a stillness, an absolute silence. Even the 
crickets...

She turns -- gasps. The primates have been cocooned in the branches of 
a  tree. And screams as something pounces on her from above, the 
transformed  lemur: a very small Alien. She bats the thing away with 
the strength of desperation. It  hits the ground HISSING; she hurls the 
basket of food at it and bolts from the  forest, sobbing.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. A TUNNEL

WHINE of an approaching engine. The six-wheeled carrier come INTO VIEW,  
Hicks driving, alone. His face is fixed, white. The carrier slews 
against the  tunnel wall, strikes sparks, bounces off. He hardly seems 
to notice. He plows  into a row of big plastic crates, tumbling them 
like a child's blocks, bringing the  vehicle to a halt. Beat. He look 
up from the controls: the doors of a freight  elevator.

INT. A CORRIDOR OFF THE MALL

Automatic CHIME as elevator doors open, revealing Hicks and his gun.

INT. THE MALL

Hicks warily crosses the Mall. SOUND of perpetual Muzak. He eyes the  
wreckage of the bar, but keeps moving. Into stuttering neon light from 
one of the  shops. HISS and CRACKLE of bad wiring. He move toward the 
shop, gun ready.

INT. SHOP

Hicks enters, surveys the wreckage of display cases, scattered 21st  
century consumer toys.

He finds five cocoons at the read of the shop.

INT. THE MALL

LONG on the shop. Beat. SOUND of five rounds from the pulse-rifle. With  
the last shot, the neon flicker dies. Muzak stops.

Hicks emerges, continues across the Mall.

Arrives at the elevator-like entrance to the mini-subway, punches in 
his destination ("OPS" lights up in red). Muffled SOUND of the breaking 
car;  the door HISSES open -- on Spence, both hands white-knuckled on 
the loop of a hanger-strap, the car an abattoir, red with the blood of 
Transformation.  Shredded clothing and rags of flesh.

HICKS Spence...

She screams.

INT. OPS ROOM

Rosetti and Jackson are hunched over the screens as Hicks enters with  
Spence over his shoulder, brushing past two nervous Marines at the 
door. Bishop is  making calculations on a console in the b.g. Hicks 
eases Spence down into a  chair.

JACKSON Revised ETA fro the Kansas City's another thirteen hours...

HICKS (yanking Rosetti aroundin his chair) Things don't look so shit 
hot  out there right now, Rosetti. What about rigging the fusion 
package?

ROSETTI (to Jackson; ignoring Hicks) Sound the general alert, routine  
lifeboat drill...

HICKS A general fucking alert? Lifeboat drill? Who the hell you think's  
gonna be left to pick up? I say we do the fusion package now!

JACKSON (wearily; without looking up from her screen) Hicks, you took 
out  the scrubber, the main air- scrubber. Pretty soon there isn't 
going to be  anything to breathe in here. We'd by okay for about five 
days, except you also  started an electrical fire and we got no way to 
put it out. The crew's down to one-twenty-eight.

HICKS (stunned) More than half...?

JACKSON That's what I said.  HICKS And you haven't rigged the place to 
blow?

JACKSON (glances at Rosetti) No.

ROSETTI (as if noticing him for the first time) You'll lead the group  
from this sector, Hicks. At the alert, they'll gather at blue assembly 
points.  Proceed to the nearest lifeboat bay...

BISHOP (approaching Rosetti with a single sheet of printout) Colonel, 
my  analysis indicates that a minimum of one fifth of the one hundred 
and twenty-  eight remaining crew are already incubating the --

ROSETTI (on the edge of hysteria) Listen to me, you motherless zombie!  
Those are people! Can't you understand that? And we're going to get 
them out!

BISHOP Yes, Colonel, I...

ROSETTI (to Hicks) You have your orders!

HICKS I don't leave here until Jackson sets it to blow, Rosetti. Got  
that? Kansas City shows up, maybe there's nobody left for them to pick 
up. Then what?  They'll send a boarding party in here!

JACKSON I can't. The fusion package is under the scrubber, Hicks. You  
trashed the wiring, man. That's where the fire is. Those lines. I can't 
link through.  I can't set it.

BISHOP I'll go; I'll get it manually.

HICKS I'll go with you.

BISHOP No. Assist with the... (glances down at the figures on the sheet  
of printout) The evacuation.

JACKSON (to Rosetti) You just want to get your own ass out of here, 
don't  you? They couldn't have done this without you approval, could 
they?

SPENCE Hick!

As one of the Marine guards stumbles forward, dropping his weapon, 
hands  upraised in claws of agony --

MARINE Please, I...

He trips, fall across Jackson's console and the barrel of Hick's gun --  
as half a dozen New Model Chest-bursters erupt simultaneously from his 
torso in a  spray of blood. Hicks bellow, jumps back, grabbing Spence.

The chest bursters tumble from the body of the dead Marine, scuttle 
into  the shadows; one leaves a trail of small bloody prints across 
Jackson's  keyboard.

HICKS Out! Out of here!

INT. CORRIDOR

Hicks, Spence, Bishop, Rosetti, Jackson, and the remaining Marine guard  
hustle along, Hicks and Bishop bringing up the rear. Rosetti carries 
the dead  Marine's pulse-rifle. Bishop touches Hick's shoulder as they 
reach the  intersection.

BISHOP I'll try to give you an hour. Overload at twenty-two hundred.

HICKS (quietly; doesn't want the others to hear) Blow it. That's what  
matters.

EXTREME CLOSEUP on Hick's watch as her set the alarm for 2200 hours.

BISHOP Yes.

Bishop splits off, down another corridor, running.

INT. LIFEBOAT ASSEMBLY POINT

Another intersection of corridors. A pathetic remnant of Anchorpoint's  
crew cluster beneath a flashing blue light. A dozen people, including  
HALLIDAY, a woman Spence's age; TATSUMI (male Japanese); a LAB TECH 
(male).

ROSETTI Where are the others? There should be thirty people here...

HALLIDAY (dazed and confused) I can't find Tom. What is it? What's 
going  on? He was just here. I mean there. But then...

JACKSON Forget it, he's probably already on the boat. You know him,  
right? C'mon, we're getting out of here ourselves...

Hicks pulls a service automatic from his vest and slips it to Jackson.

HICKS (under his breath) Keep an eye on everybody, okay, Ops?

JACKSON (to the others) Okay! You all know the Goddamn drill! Done it  
often enough, right? We're taking A-52 to Blue Concourse. We stick 
together.  We'll meet up with two others groups at Bay Five and proceed 
to board...

TATSUMI What is happening, please?

JACKSON What's happening is we're getting on the boats! Move!

INT. THE MALL

Dense haze of smoke from burning insulation; half the lights are out. A  
body floats face down in the pool at the foot of the waterfall; the 
pool is overflowing, splashing on polished concrete. Bishop emerges 
from a  doorway and hurries along toward the freight elevator. He 
freezes. Hears something  else. Moves quietly in the direction of the 
SOUND. The bar. He peers into the  wreckage. Four Aliens are at work, 
cocooning their prey. Cocooned bodies -- CLOSE  on the face of Shuman -
- have been glued to the big screen, where silent images  of the soccer 
game repeat endlessly. Bishop stares, then turns -- looks up.

A Queen. The thing towers above him in the Mall, utterly still.

Beat.

He takes a step backward. Another.

The Queen's head sways.

Another step. He bolts for the elevator.

The Queen screams her rage, scrambles after him like a famished mantis.

He's reached the elevator -- stabs desperately at the controls -- as 
the  doors open and he's through, punching more buttons -- as the Queen 
strikes, her  first blow buckling the steel doors.

INT. FREIGHT ELEVATOR

Her huge stinger lashes in through the gap, whipping and slicing, 
Bishop  braced up straight in a corner, hand still on the controls. The 
elevator GROANS,

SHUDDERS, begins to descend, then jams in the shaft. The stinger whips  
back out. SOUND of rending metal as the Queen continues her attack.

INT. A CORRIDOR AT BULKHEAD HATCH

Jackson ducks through first, still wearing her Ops cap. Rosetti next,  
then Spence, helping Halliday; the others follow, Hicks bringing up the 
rear.  Hicks pauses, looks back through the hatch. Hears a distant 
CRASH, an inhuman  cry. Takes a small bat of plastic explosive from his 
vest and squashes it  against the edge of the bulkhead. Pulls a grenade 
from his harness, twists its neck  in the delay-detonate combination, 
sticks in into the plastique, closes the  hatch, and runs.

The smoke is getting worse.

INT. BLUE CONSOURSE

Another of the white-tiled traffic-tunnels, this one identified by a 
wide  band of blue along either side. A small vehicle has overturned, 
amid blood and  torn clothing. Jackson and her party are skirting the 
wreck as Hicks catches  up with them. Jackson whirls at the SOUND of 
running feet, bringing up the  pistol.

HICKS Easy, Jackson!

JACKSON Where y'been?

A distant EXPLOSION shakes the tunnel, jarring loose several tiles.

HICKS (low, so the others won't hear) They're following us. Left 'em  
something to slow 'em down.

JACKSON Might as well. Just try not to put a hole in the hull, okay?  
(coughs) Remember the air-scrubber...

HICKS Let's move.

INT. FREIGHT ELEVATOR

Bishop on his knees, running his hands delicately over the ribbed 
plastic

flooring. The Queen HISSES, BASHES the door. He finds a seam, levers up  
with his nails, gets a grip. Pulls. Sense of his android strength as 
the flooring  comes up on pale streamers of super-glue. The elevator 
shakes with the Queen's  fury. He finds a section of the floor that can 
be removed. Forces the glue-caked  catches. Slams down with the heel of 
his hand -- the panel falls away, tumbling  through smoke toward a 
point of fire-glow at the shaft's distant foot.

INT. SHAFT

Bishop lowers himself through the opening, dangles. An emergency 
service-  ladder is recessed in one wall. He tries to reach one of the 
rungs with his  foot, but the toe of his boot slips. Too far. He begins 
to swing back and forth  like a gymnast, building momentum -- and lets 
go. Falls six feet before he  manages to get a grip.

He begins to descend the ladder. It's a long way down.

INT. BLUE CONSOURSE

The lifeboat party emerges, coughing, from a wall of acrid smoke.

REACTION SHOT

dismay and amazement.

The tunnel has been sealed with a plug of Alien resin. Human bones,  
weapons, and Marine helmets protrude from the biomech convolutions of 
the resin-wall.  Another of the six-wheeled military vehicles carriers 
is skewed across the tunnel  in a pool of blood.

ROSETTI It doesn't want us to get out...

HICKS Bugs. Just fucking bugs... C'mon. (he climbs into the driver's 
seat  of the carrier) We're taking the bus. Which way, Ops?

JACKSON (getting in beside him) Way we came, unless you think of  
something better.

HALLIDAY What's he mean, "bugs"? What is that thing? (pointing at the  
resin-plug) Where's Tom? Where's Tom?

SPENCE (taking her arm; leading her to the carrier) It'll be okay. 
Here,  get up... There was an experiment. It got out of control. We 
have to go...

TATSUMI What kind of experiment?

HICKS (throwing the carrier into gear; cutting off their questions) 
Come  on!

INT. BLUE CONCOURSE

TRACKING on carrier, CLOSE on Hicks and Jackson. She takes a flat 
gadget  from her jacket and flips it open; a miniature computer-map on 
anchorpoint, like a  pocket video game.

As she wiggles a tiny joystick, EXTREME CLOSEUP on miniature color  
screen; she's looking for an alternate route to the lifeboats.

JACKSON (still studying the map) Left at B-83. We'll cut through  
Aquaculture, up to level to Aeroponics. We can get into Residential 
from there, then it's  up a service tunnel behind the central 
mainframe...

HICKS Sounds complicated.

JACKSON Quickest way.

Flips the map shut. Spence is trying to comfort Halliday.

INT. AQUACULTURE FARM

An automated fish farm; factory space ranged with dozens of waist-high  
round white vats of dark green water. Low ceiling, dim light. Sweeps 
rotate  slowly across the water in some vats; others are still, with 
floating green  vegetation.

Hicks leads the party along a narrow aisle between the vats. Jackson  
pauses to check her map and watch; Hicks light a cigarette, leans his 
elbow against  the nearest vat.

JACKSON We're doing okay...

The surface of the water behind Hicks' elbow erupts as the fish go into 
a  feed frenzy. He yelps and jumps back, dropping his cigarette.

SPENCE Bass. They're just hungry... Ready to be harvested.

HICKS Sure. Let's get out of here, okay?

The others follow, keeping their distance from the vats.

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT

Bishop jumps down, dodges a dangling power cable, squints through the  
smoke. Finds a manual emergency level that opens the shaft's door.

INT. TUNNEL

A blast of air fans the flames behind him as he steps out. The carrier 
is  there, among the scattered crates, where Hicks left it. Bishop 
climbs in, tries  the power. A feeble whine. Touches another button. 
The dash flashes "BATTERY RECHARGE." He climbs down an sets off along 
the tunnel at a jog.

INT. AEROPONICS FARM

State of the art. Epcot-style soilless cultivation. Tall A-frame  
structures of white styrofoam are studded with hundreds of precisely 
spaced plants,  their roots watered by periodic bursts of high-pressure 
mist. Vegetables sprout from  the sides of tapering styrofoam columns. 
All of the wreathed in mist under  brilliant halogen lamps.

Hicks scans the chamber, gun ready, as the party emerges from a hatch 
in  the white deck behind him. Spence has to help Halliday, whose 
cheeks are  streaked with tears. Rosetti's up last, clutching his 
pulse-rifle a bit too  tightly, eyes darting around the chamber.

HICKS Keep the safety on, Colonel. You could hurt somebody.

He kneels beside the hatch, takes plastique and a grenade from his  
harness, and slaps together another bomb.

ROSETTI What are you doing?

HICKS They may be following us.

He closes the hatch over the charge and locks it. Halliday starts to 
weep

hysterically in Spence's arms; goes to her knees, the tries to curl 
into  a fetal position on the white deck, shuddering, crying like a 
child. Rosetti  rushes over as Spence is trying to get her to her feet.

ROSETTI They'll hear you!

Rosetti slaps Halliday's face, hard; eliciting a piercing scream. 
Spence  -- no hesitation -- punches him solidly in the face; his head 
snaps back and  he's down, reaching for his rifle.

Tableau: Spence furious, ready to kick ass; Halliday wide-eyed, stunned  
into silence by Spence's move; Rosetti with blood on his mouth and his 
hand on  his gun.

JACKSON (to Rosetti; cocking her gun) Try it.

Hicks breaks the spell:

HICKS (drill sergeant bellow) Two minute fuse! Hall ass people!

The Lab Tech grabs Halliday, throws her over his shoulder, and runs. 
The  others scramble after him, including Rosetti, whose drive to self-
preservation  is paramount. Hicks and Spence take up the rear.

Hicks shoots her a grin as they run.

LONG SHOT down the aisle of aeroponic greenery, high-tech Hanging 
Gardens  of Babylon, the lifeboat party approaching. Behind them, the 
hatch lifts off  its hinges with the EXPLOSION, CRASHES back in a 
tangle of metal. Several of  the party are thrown to the deck.

JACKSON (quietly; urgently; as the others pick themselves up) Hicks!

HICKS Yeah?

JACKSON Look...

She points down another aisle of aeroponic structures.

JACKSON (continuing) What the hell's that?

Two of the Styrofoam structures have been overgrown with a grayish 
parody  of vegetation, glistening vine-like structures and bulbous sacs 
the echo the  Alien biomech motif. Patches of thick black mold spread 
to the styrofoam and  the white deck.

HICKS It was... cabbages or something...

TATSUMI (with the others) Come, please, Jackson! Which way?

JACKSON (gripping Hicks' arm; pulling him along) Spence said it did her  
monkeys, too... (raising her voice) Third door to the right!

INT. TUNNEL NEAR FUSION PACKAGE

Bishop comes loping down the tunnel, a certain effortless regularity  
evident in his run. Makes a turn into the chamber that houses the 
fusion package, Anchorpoint's power source. The chamber is spotless, 
well lit; the only  sign of the current disaster is the smoke. The 
fusion package itself is no bigger  than a Volkswagen bus, but it's 
obviously Anchorpoint's heart. Bishop climbs a  narrow metal stairway 
to an overhanging control booth resembling the inverted  turrent of a 
streamlined tank. A mirrored disk is mounted on the face of the armored  
hatch, above a small slot.

SECURITY PROGRAM (V.O.) (bland feminine synthi-voice) Please identify  
yourself.

Bishop removes his dogtags. As he inserts one in the slot, he presses 
the  palm on his other hand against the mirrored surface.

BISHOP Bishop, Science Officer, Hyperdyne A-slash-5, Mark 3, serial  
number PL3358172438. Permission to inspect software safety protocols.

SECURITY PROGRAM (V.O.) Permission denied. Inadequate rank. Please 
refer  request to your immediate supervisor.

The slot tries to reject his tag. He shove it back in.

BISHOP Emergency protocols. Code Theta Five Three. Authority Rosetti  
comma Shuman.

SECURITY PROGRAM (V.O.) Permission denied. Inadequate rank. Please 
refer  request to your immediate supervisor.

It ejects his tag. He drops his hand from the disk, stares at his  
reflection in the mirrored surface. Blinks. Re-inserts dog tags, palm 
on disk again.

BISHOP Emergency protocols. Code Theta Five Three. Authority Welles 
comma  Fox.

The door HISSES open instantly. He climbs in.

INT. CONTROL BOOTH

Surgically clean, unused -- Jackson ordinarily runs the show from  
Operations. Bishop settles into the operator's chair, facing three 
blank monitors.

BISHOP Protocols, safety.

The central screen displays an elaborate menu.

BISHOP (continuing) Overload failsafes.

The left screen displays a shorter menu.

BISHOP (continuing) Bypass overload failsafes.

A red light begins to flash.

SECURITY PROGRAM (V.O.) Permission denied. Inadequate rank. Please 
refer  --

BISHOP Cancel request. Request display overload failsafe software.

SECURITY PROGRAM (V.O.) Permission denied. Inadequate rank. Please 
refer  --

BISHOP Authority Welles comma Fox --

The right screen displays an animated diagram, thousands of 
interweaving  lines and symbols, moving ceaselessly, hypnotically. 
Bishop studies the screen  with Zen calm, his hands poised like a 
pianist's above the keyboard.

And makes his move, a cybernetic reprise of the knife sequence that  
introduced him in "ALIENS." His fingers blur across the board with 
inhuman speed and

accuracy as he races the fusion softwares's security system.

The lines on the screen squirm and shift, A "window" begins to open...

Faster.

Done.

Bishop gazes at the screen with might be the android equivalent of  
postcoital satisfaction, eyes bright. The screen displays a message:

"OVERLOAD OPTION RESET"

He beings to reprogram the overload options.

INT. RESIDENTAL (MARRIED CREW QUARTERS)

A maze of walls, doors (most of them open). Lights are on, but the 
smoke  is thicker. Coughing, choking, Jackson shoves past the others 
into a large  communal kitchen. On an electric range, smoke pours from 
a pot. She grabs an  extinguisher and blasts the pot's blackened 
contents, turns off the element. Smoke  abates slightly.

The quarters have an eerie Marie Celeste quality: food and drink on the  
table, a pack of cigarettes beside an ashtray. Spence pockets the 
cigarettes as  shepasses; Hicks opens a large white thermos: steam. He 
sloshes coffee into a cup  and drinks.

In the next room, a communal lounge, Spence leads Halliday to a couch 
and  sinks down beside her, head in hands. Rosetti leans against an 
entertainment  console, face blank, gingerly rubbing his split lip.

SPENCE (head down) It's funny, but I had to win a contest to go through  
this. A science fair in Omaha, first in biology for all of Nebraska. 
Monoclonal antibodies... (she looks up at Rosetti) Then I got into 
Cornell. Another  contest. It wasn't easy, getting out here. We all 
must've wanted it so bad, a  whole generation, or anyway the ones like 
me.

ROSETTI (looks at her wearily) Idealists.

SPENCE Yeah. I guess so. Build a new world, find ways to live in it...  
But it wasn't supposed to be like this. And it might've worked. It 
almost did.  Now look at it. Ending...

She sits up and hugs Halliday, whose eyes are shut tight.

SPENCE (continuing) What I want to know, mister, is why we had to bring  
you?

ROSETTI (massages his temples, then looks at her levelly) Funding.

SPENCE Yeah. I guess you're right. You paid for it, I guess you get to  
fuck it up.

HICKS (tossing her an apple) C'mon, time to move. Get her up?

SPENCE Sure.

She gets Halliday unsteadily to her feet.

They move out in a tight group, Jackson leading, Hicks taking up the  
rear, Spence biting resolutely into her apple.

ANGLE THROUGH A DOORWAY -- REACTION SHOT

as Halliday's eyes fill with a new and deep horror.

ANGLE -- THE ROOM

is a preschool, a cr_che, scattered with toys, the walls tapes with  
children's paintings.

HALLIDAY O God...

Spence and the Lab Tech hurry her on, out of the cr_che. Halliday  
snatches a ragdoll from a shelf as they pass...

INT. TUNNEL AWAY FROM FUSION PACKAGE

Bishop heads for the elevator shaft at his usual steady pace. 
Approaches  the open doors cautiously. Listens. Nothing. He edges in. 
Empty. The circuit fire  has died down; melted insulation still 
SPUTTERS. He looks up the shaft. A long  climb. He can make out the 
bottom of the elevator. He reaches up, grabs a rung,  sets his left 
boot on another, straightens up -- and drives the jagged and of his  
broken knee joint through the side of his leg and the fabric of his 
fatigues in  a gout of milky android blood. Hits the floor hard, the 
broken leg splayed at  the hideous angle, the white fluid a widening 
pool.

Struggles to brace his shoulders against the wall. And reaches out to  
touch the ragged edge of artificial bone.

BISHOP (a scientific observation) Polycarbon...

INT. ENTRANCE TO FOOT OF MAINFRAME SERVICE SHAFT

leaving residential. Hicks and Jackson chivvy the party through a low,  
floor- level service hatch.

INT. SERVICE SHAFT

Party's POV, looking up: ladders, platforms, catwalks, bundles of  
fiberoptic lines linking the components of Achorpoint's computer 
mainframe, drifting  smoke. The bundles loops of fiberoptics have a 
faint, pearlescent glow. Hicks,  as usual is last up the ladder.

INT. LADDERS IN SERVICE SHAFT -- VARIOUS ANGLES

The party, climbing. Halliday still has the ragdoll. Hicks up last.

INT. PLATFORM IN SERVICE SHAFT

The Marine guard from Ops emerges through a narrow opening, Spence and  
Halliday follow -- and an Alien strikes from the shadows, ripping out 
his throat.  Spence drives for his rifle as it skids across the 
platform. Screams from the  ladder below. The gun slips through her 
fingers, over the edge -- gone. Halliday  cringes in a corner, cradling 
the ragdoll in her arms, as the Alien butchers the  dead Marine, 
slashing the corpse to ribbons with its tail. It HISSES, turns  its 
head. Spence freezes.

INT. LADDER IN SERVICE SHAFT

Hicks is desperately trying to fight his way past the others, climbing  
over them --

INT. PLATFROM IN SERVICE SHAFT

Spence snatches a drum of cable from a service cart and hurls it at the  
Alien, distracting it from Halliday.

The beast springs toward Spence, bet she's already scrambling out along 
a

fragile-looking catwalk that quakes with her passage. The Alien pursues  
her into the forest of cables with a hideous agility. Hicks clambers up 
through  the opening, too late. Spence and the Alien are out of sight.

INT. FIBEROPTIC FOREST

Spence flattened against the mainframe, heart thumping, terrified. 
Takes  a breath, look out between two glowing trunks of cable. Sees the 
Alien's  back, fifteen feet away. She bites her lip and slips out, 
runs. It SCREECHES  behind her. She blunders into another wall. A 
ladder. Up the rungs, fast. Into a  short narrow space lit by a single 
blue emergency light. No way out. She moves  forward, hands sliding 
over a jumble of containers. SOUND of the beast swarming up  the 
ladder. She's below the blue bulb now, looks down at her hand on a flat  
plastic case stenciled "COLONIAL TRANS AP-49 FLARE SIGNAL OXY-
ATMOSPHERIC 20MM."  She tears at the catches --

The beast is almost on her.

She turns, bringing up the huge flare-pistol, and FIRES. The beast is  
blown backwards, off its feet, the igniting magnesium flare a white-hot  
chemical star burning in its guts as it flips back over the edge.

INT. PLATFORM IN SERVICE SHAFT

Hicks and the Lab Three see the burning Alien's fall as a weird pulse 
of  light through the translucent cables.

LAB TECH What -- ?

HICKS (yells) Spence! Yo! Spence!

Hicks crosses the catwalk, followed by the Lab Tech.

Halliday stares after them over the head of her ragdoll.

INT. PLATFORM IN SERVICE SHAFT

The others have climbed up now. They watch Hicks, the Lab Tech, and  
Spence recross the catwalk. Spence has the flare-pistol around her neck 
on a  lanyard.

JACKSON (checks her watch) Okay, people! Gotta move it now. Start  
climbing!

HICKS Halliday!

She rushes to the spot where we last saw Halliday. The ragdoll lies on  
the deck. Spence grabs it up, flings it instantly away at the touch of 
slime.

SPENCE (screaming) No! No!

Hicks pulls an olive-drab aerosol unit fro his medical pack and 
drenches  her hand with spray.

HICKS Jackson's right. We gotta move.

Rosetti is already starting up the ladder.

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT

Bishop, climbing. He has his web belt cinched tight around his left  
thigh. The splintered bone is out of sight; the leg of his fatigues, 
below the belt,  is soaked with fluid. He uses his arms and right leg 
to climb, the left leg  swaying free -- grotesquely, in too many 
directions, like the limb of a broken  puppet.

He shows signs of stress. The right knee might break at the next 
rung...  He places it carefully, taking up most of his weight on his 
arms.

He checks his watch.

EXTREME CLOSEUP: 2140 HOURS.

BISHOP'S POV -- UP THE SHAFT

It looks like forever.

INT. SERVICE SHAFT

Jackson uses a pistol-grip power-driver to unscrew a ventilator grill.  
Hicks shines his light into the opening, then crawls in. Jackson 
follows, then Rosetti...

INT. DUCT

Hands and knees, single file and barely room for that. Hicks has his  
flashlight clipped bayonet-style to his rifle. Jackson behind him, her 
cap reversed.

 HICKS How we doin'?

Jackson stops crawling; flips open her map, her features visible in the  
glow of the tiny screen.

JACKSON Looks like another ten meters. Then we're into K-58-A and  
straight to the boat bays.

ROSETTI (V.O.) (hollow echo) Move! Hurry!

HICKS Yes, sir.

They move forward.

INT. CORRIDOR -- DUCT EXIT

Hicks and Jackson prepare to pull the others one at a time from the  
waist-high opening. It's evident that the duct, at this point, slants 
sharply down  from the opening; it's round and smooth and difficult to 
climb.

INT. DUCT

From below, members of the party wedge their way up with knees and  
elbows.

INT. CORRIDOR -- DECT EXIT

Hicks and Jackson pull Rosetti from the duct, both his hands locked  
around his pulse-rifle; then the Lab Tech; then Spence; they reach the 
Tatsumi...

SCREAMS and frenzied BANGING from the duct. Tatsumi's eyes pop wide 
open  and he screams. Hicks braces his boot against the wall and hauls 
him out -- with  the jaws of a freshly-transformed new beast locked on 
his leg. Hicks whirls  his rifle like an axe, the butt slamming into 
the thing's head. It HISSES and  twists back into the duct.

INT. DUCT -- POV OF THE TRAPPED FIVE

as the beast slides toward them down smooth steel.

INT. CORRIDOR -- DUCT EXIT

Rosetti thrusts the barrel out of his pulse-rifle past Hicks, into the  
duct, and FIRES on full auto, emptying his magazine. Jackson drives for 
the gun as  Hicks snaps him off his feet with a roundhouse punch. The 
back of Rosetti's  head slams against the opposite wall and he slides 
to the deck.

Jackson's on him before he can recover, practically jamming the muzzle 
of  the pulse-rifle down his throat.

JACKSON Y'know, always been part of me wanted to kill one of you  
motherfuckers...

Rosetti looks up at her.

ROSETTI Go ahead.

Very quiet. No sound at all from the duct. Tatsumi whimpers between  
clenched teeth as a wisp of acid smoke rises from his torn trouser leg. 
Hicks  shines his light down into the duct.

HICKS Oh man... Forget it, Jackson. Anyway, it's empty.

He tosses her a fresh magazine.

SPENCE Hicks! The light!

She and the Lab Tech are crouching beside Tatsumi, slitting his pantleg  
with a knife, exposing the wound.

SPENCE (continuing) Watch out, it's on the cloth...

The Lab Tech yelps as a droplet of acid touches his hand. Hicks unclips  
his light and passes it to Spence.

SPENCE (continuing) On my God...

The Alien has taken a bite the size of a small grapefruit out of  
Tatsumi's calf; flesh and muscle are blackened, charred by the acid.

HICKS (unclipping a flat plastic kit from his harness) What's his name?

JACKSON Tatsumi...

HICKS Cocktail for ya, Tatsumi.

He opens the kit, takes out a gun-shaped hypo with a pressure tank.

HICKS (continuing) Can't get this on the Ginza, fella. Six times 
stronger  than heroin, about eight other things in there to keep you up 
an' rockin'...

He jabs the needle through Tatsumi's pantleg; the unit HISSES.

HICKS (continuing) Get a Marine a year in the brig, playin' R&R with 
one  of these...

Tatsumi moan softly as the shot hits him. Very clearly, in Japanese, he  
asks if it's time to go back on duty.

LAB TECH Wha'd he say?

SPENCE I don't know...

HICKS We'll have to carry him. (passes Spence a sterile dressing pack  
from his harness) Think you can get a dressing on that? Not bleeding 
much. Like  it's cauterized. (to Rosetti) Get up, we're moving. (to 
Jackson) Think you  better hang on to the Colonel's rifle.

INT. MALL -- ENTERANCE TO FREIGHT ELEVATOR

The doors look as though someone's gone after them with a giant can  
opener; they're ragged, gaping. Bishop's hands suddenly appear in the 
opening in  the floor, grip the edge; he hauls himself up, arms 
quivering with strain.  Last thing through is the useless leg; he has 
to pull it up with both hands.

He looks anxiously out into the mall. Nothing moving, no Aliens in 
sight.  The queen's attack as torn loose a strip of alloy trim. Bishop 
bends it  double for strength and begins to work it beneath the belt 
around his thigh, still  keeping an eye on the mall.

INT. CORRIDOR TO ASSEMBLY POINT -- LIFEBOAT BAY

Hicks and Jackson slogging along, dragging Tatsumi between them, Spence  
with the flare pistol, then Rosetti and the Lab Tech. Smoke hangs in 
strata.  Spence coughs. They're all feeling Anchorpoint's fire-depleted 
oxygen-level.  Tatsumi looks terrible: flushed, eyes glazed, but he's 
feeling no pain. He weakly

attempts to sing a snatch of a Japanese pop song. CLOSEUP on his 
bandaged  leg leaving a trail of yellow drops...

LAB TECH That's right, man. Not long now.

HICKS Hey, Jackson -- Goddamn, you were right.

He's pointing his pulse-rifle at a plastic sign mounted on the corridor  
wall:

LIFEBOAT BAY 20 METERS

JACKSON (grins) Sure. Hadda map, didn't I?

They round a corner. Ahead is one of the blue lights and another sign:

LIFEBOAT LAUNCH ASSEMBLY POINT

SPENCE The others groups... Where's everybody else?

HICKS Hell, they coulda launched already...

JACKSON No.

She's looking at a wall panel with LEDs that indicate launch status of  
the lifeboats.

JACKSON (continuing) The boats are all here.

LAB TECH Then nobody else made it...

Rosetti ignores them, keeps walking.

JACKSON (looking after Rosetti) I shoulda greased him.

HICKS Shit. What's the point?

JACKSON The point? The point's he let 'em run their fucking 
experiments!  He coulda stopped 'em! But he didn't! You tried, man, you 
and Bishop... He  let 'em do it!

HICKS Shit no. He's just brass. He's just like you an' me, to the 
people  who brought this down. Wouldn't do any good to grease them 
either.

JACKSON Bullshit! What not?

HICKS Because what you wanna grease is the company...

Rosetti breaks into a stumbling run as he nears the portal at the end 
of  the corridor, the entrance to the lifeboat bays.

CLOSEUP -- ROSETTI

frantically punching a combination. Wants that door to open. Gets it:  
slides back smooth as silk, revealing a brightly lit room filled with 
pristine space  gear and an indeterminate number of Aliens, their 
appendages tangled black and  shiny as a fresh catch of eels.

ROSETTI No! Goddamn it! No!

ANGLE

The Aliens stir as he throws himself back down the corridor toward the  
others. Hicks drops Tatsumi, who sags into Jackson's arms, and raises 
his rifle.  FIRES a bolt past Rosetti, into the heart of the mass. 
Rosetti claws his way by  as Spence lets loose with the flare-pistol. 
All the ammo she has but it's a big red

distress flare straight through the portal; it bursts, crimson 
lightning,

scattering the Aliens. Now everyone is backing down the corridor, the 
way  they came, Jackson burdened with Tatsumi. Rosetti fumbles with the 
combination  on another door. Hicks is SHOOTING as he retreats. Aliens 
come darting out  past the dying cherry brilliance of the flare, 
SCREAMING down the corridor... The  second door open for Rosetti -- 
he's through, the second Lab Tech on his heels.

INT. AN OFFICE

Dark -- only light from the corridor, even less are Rosetti immediately  
tries to slam and lock the door in Spence's face -- but the Lab Tech 
yanks him out  of the way. The others tumble in, Jackson with Tatsumi 
in a fireman's carry.  Hicks kicks the door shut and locks it -- as 
something SLAMS into it, hard. Jackson  lowers Tatsumi to the carpeted 
floor.

Hicks CLICKS the light on. Swings the muzzle of his gun around the 
room,  circle of light jumping from one thing to the next. An office, 
larger than  Rosetti's. 21st-century stylistics and a basic 
bureaucratic banality: fake teak,  imitation leather. Framed portraits 
of beaming Weyland Yutani bigshots. Spence  brushes a square object of 
a shelf -- the base of a small hologram- projector. A  glowing DNA 
helix springs up.

HICKS Don't touch anything...

LAB TECH (to Jackson, pointing at Rosetti) He tried to lock the door,  
lock us out...

JACKSON (pulling the automatic from her jacket) Rosetti...

HICKS Forget it. That's what he wants. You really wanna do 'im the 
favor?

 JACKSON Waddya mean it's what he wants?

HICKS I've seen it before. In combat.

Rosetti backs away from them.

SPENCE (V.O.) Hick, come here... I think it's Trent...

He finds her around the corner of a padded partition that screens a 
desk-  console from the rest of the room. His light finds the lab-
coated corpse sprawled  in the chair behind the desk, a quarter of its 
skull blown away, dried blood  spattered across the bulkhead, a service 
automatic locked in rigid fingers.

HICKS (shrugs) Did himself. Hey, Rosetti! C'mere!

Rosetti looks around the edge of the partition, sees Trent.

HICKS (continuing) That's it, man. That's what it looks like. You don't  
chill out quick, somebody'll do the same for you.

ROSETTI (stares at the corpse) Brilliant man. Company man. Very...  
ambitious.

Hicks takes the light off the corpse, plays it around the cubicle. A  
shredder, empty file folders, a bulging plastic sack of shredded 
documents.

HICKS Yeah...

Hicks swings the light across the wall behind Trent's desk.

SPENCE The wall, Hicks!

She's spooked him; the safety's off the pulse-rifle. But there's 
nothing  on the wall, only framed diplomas, and between them a few 
stenciled letters...

SPENCE (continuing) Jesus Christ! It's a lock, Hicks! Airlock!

She clambers over the desk console, shoves the corpse out the way, and  
tears the diplomas from the wall, revealing the outline of a hatch and 
the  stenciled notice:

EMERGENCY AIRLOCK - EXIT TO HULL-SECTOR 308

A CRASH from the corridor as Alien hurls itself against the door.

SPENCE (continuing) It's a chance! The only chance we've got! We get 
out  on the hull, cross to the boats. We can try to get into one that 
way, from  outside...

Hicks looks down at his watch. 2146 HOURS. If Bishop's managed to set 
the  fusion package to blow at 2200 hours -- they don't have a hope in 
hell.

But why spoil it for Spence?

HICKS Let's go for it.

Spence hauls on the red airline-style inset handle of the emergency  
airlock. The handle flips down and the hatch pivots smoothly open, a 
light inside goes  on, and the eternal synthi-voice announces:

ANNONCEMENT This is a five-man emergency atmosphere lock, exit to Hull  
Sector Three-oh-eight, equipped with five Mark Twelve emergency suits. 
Each Mark  Twelve suit is charged with a two-hour air supply and is 
equipped with automatic  radar beacon, inter-suit radio, and magnetic 
sole plates. It you should  experience difficulty with either the O-
rings of the velcro strips, please activate  the secondary program for 
additional advice.

JACKSON There's six of us...

Space suits swings from a rack, each helmet a different color. 
Rosetti's  pressed up close behind her, eyes fixed on the suits.

JACKSON (continuing) Fuck off, Rosetti; anybody stays, it's you

LAB TECH (O.S.) Light, quick! Something's...

The Lab Tech is backing away from Tatsumi, who lies on his back on the  
carpeted deck, mouth gaping, eyes showing whites. A tearing SOUND as  
Hicksspotlights Tatsumi's bandaged leg -- where the dressing is 
bulging, moving, seeping  yellow fluid. A new-model chest-buster flails 
its way out of the wound and  shuttles into the shadows beneath a 
chair. Twin red spots appear on Tatsumi's white  shirt; two more of the 
things rip their way out through his stomach as he arches  backwards, 
groaning -- the groan cut off as a fourth chest-burster pops from his  
mouth...

Jackson brings her pistol up with both hands, arms locked, and SHOOTS  
Tatsumi in the head.

HICKS Get in the lock! Suit up!

INT. EMERGENCY LOCK

Hicks pulls the inner door shut. The lock is white, bright, a very 
tight  fit for the five of them. The Lab Tech reaches for one of the 
hanging suits,  yells as a blood-slick chest-burster loses its grip and 
tumbles out of the suit's  open front.

LAB TECH Aaaaah!

Hicks shoulders the door -- just a crack; it doesn't want to open -- as  
Rosetti grabs a helmet and swings it underhand, knocking the little 
horror out of  the lock. Hicks gets the door shut again.

Spence is shuddering. Rosetti is putting the helmet on, reaching for 
his  suit.

SPENCE J-jesus, Rosetti... How'd you do that?

ROSETTI (beat) I used to be a soldier

They hurriedly strip to their underwear and struggle into space suits.  
Rosetti has the yellow helmet, Hicks red, Spence blue, Jackson green, 
and Lab  Tech orange.

Spence is sealing up her space suit over freckles and a military-issue  
bra; Hicks sealing his over dog tags and his acid-scarred chest.

ANNOUNCEMENT Please be seated. Fasten lapbelts.

Narrow ledges on either side of the lock. The five sit, step in. Spence  
and the Lab Tech closest to the outer door. Hicks and Jackson are 
opposite them.

ROSETTI (filter; suit radio; turning his helmet to face Spence) You're  
right, Spence. I should have tried to stop them. It would have done no 
good, of  course, but I should have tried...

SPENCE (filter; suit radio) When we get back, there'll be a board of  
inquiry. You can tell them, Colonel, tell them what happened. Help them 
find the ones  who were responsible...

ANNOUNCEMENT Ten-second warning. Activating outer hatch.

Rosetti's helmet turns slowly toward her. Through his faceplate bubble,  
the canceled eyes and blood-streaked drool of the Change...

JACKSON (filter; suit radio) He gone! Jeeees-us!

As blood wells up into Rosetti's helmet, filling it completely, and  
something dark begins to strike the inner surface of his faceplate, 
violently,  again and again. The space suit hunches through inhuman 
postures --

As the outer hatch pivots out on hydraulics, the vacuum sucking small  
loose objects out into the void.

The new beast in Rosetti's suit snaps the heavy nylon lapbelt and 
lunges  at Spence.

HER POV

as the blood-bubble strikes her faceplate, the fanged tongue working 
like  a piledriver, starting to split the tough plastic of Rosetti's 
faceplate --  tiny bubbles of blood along the first hairline crack.

ANGLE

The Lab Tech unfastens his lapbelt and grapples with the suited beast,  
pulling it off Spence.

Hicks is wrestling with his pulse-rifle, pinned to the bench by the  
struggle.

The suit radios are filled with the beast's thick gurgling ROAR. As it  
turns on the Lab Tech, flings him out through the open hatch, and 
bounds after  him.

EXT. HULL -- AIRLOCK

Vacuum. Zero gravity.

The thing in Rosetti's suit catches the Lab Tech in mid-tumble, its  
gloved hands spread like talons, grips the Lab Tech's helmet and 
collar-joint in  either hand, and rips his helmet off. Air explodes 
from the neck of his suit, lifting  his air in a three-second gale that 
freezes instantly, becoming a small cloud of  ice crystal. The Lab 
Tech's eyes are frozen marbles. He goes cartwheeling  slowly across the 
hull as the beast grabs a protruding strut and spins to dace  the 
airlock with a terrible balletic grace.

Hicks is in the hatchway. He raises. the pulse-rifle, pulls the 
trigger.  The ammo-counter flashes 00, empty. Jackson reaches past him 
with a fresh  magazine. Hicks slaps it into the gun as the beast 
launches itself toward him from  the strut. He FIRES. The space suit 
EXPLODES in a cloud of blood and acid.

Hicks bounces awkwardly out over the rim of the hatch, followed by  
Jackson and Spence.

Beat. Anchorpoint's hull stretches away to its own horizon, al flat 
gray  expanse of broken by various structures. The body of the Lab Tech 
is tumbling  slowly out into space.

SPENCE (filter; suit radio; looking after the vanishing Lab Tech) I 
never  even knew his name... Hicks... Hicks, are we gonna make it?

Hick's gloved hands is closed around something small. He open it, looks  
down. His watch. 2159 HOURS.

Hicks looks into her eyes as if he sees her for the first time.  HICKS 
(filter; suit radio) Make it? Yeah... Sure we make it.

He gives her a desperate grin.

His gloved hand, still holding the watch, takes her.

SOUND of the watch's alarm: 2200 HOURS.

Hicks' eyes are shut tight.

Nothing happens.

SPENCE (filter; suit radio) Hicks? Hicks, are you okay? What is it?

He opens his eyes. Looks at her. Releases her hand.

EXTREME CLOSEUP ON WATCH

2201 HOURS

ANGLE

SPENCE (filter; suit radio) You okay?

Hicks flings with watch away. It tumbles out slowly, level with the 
deck,  keeps tumbling...

HICKS (filter; suit radio) Okay, Ops, which way to the boats?

JACKSON (filter; suit radio) Got me, man. The map was just for the  
inside...

HICKS (filter; suit radio) See that radio mast? Let's try that way.

They set out in single-file across the hull, Hicks leading, Jackson  
bringing up the rear. The radio mast, visible above the horizon, is the 
tallest  structure in sight, a steel thorn slanted toward the stars.

Behind them, the airlock remain open, spilling light...

EXT. HULL -- LONG SHOT

Three tiny figures, their helmets bright dots of color against the  
monotone hull-plain: red, blue, green.

VOICE OVER: Steady rasp of human breath.

EXT. HULL -- ANOTHER ANGLE -- LONG

Shadows tangle in the light from the lock. Moving. Black talons slip 
over  the hatch rim, followed by an eyeless Alien mask. Then another. 
The creatures  are entirely unaffected by cold, by vacuum...

EXT. HULL -- APPROACH TO LIFEBOAT BAYS

Hicks, Spence, Jackson. Hicks gestures with his rifle: the prows of the  
boats.

HICKS (filter; suit radio) There you go, Ops.

JACKSON (filter; suit radio) Good navigating...

HICKS (filter; suit radio) Good guessing. Still have to get into one of  
the damn things...

Spence loses her footing as she climbs down a ledge, goes into a  slow-
motion, zero-g roll; Jackson grabs her.

EXT. HULL -- SHOT FROM UNLIT LIFEBOAT INTERIOR THROUGH A PORTHOLE

Hicks is approaching. Closer. His gloves on the porthole. His  helmet-
bubble CLICKS against it. The beam of his light stabs in, swings from 
side to  side, blinks out.

EXT. HULL -- LIFEBOAT BAYS

Hicks straightens up from the porthole.

HICKS (filter; suit radio) Looks good. Good as it gets. How the hell we  
get in?

JACKSON (filter; suit radio) I can run a bypass on the hatch latches, 
but  I need a hotwire...

SPENCE (filter; suit radio; starting to climb up the side of the boat) 
I  can strip some cable off the solar cells...

HICKS (filter; suit radio) Open it that way and we lose the air.

JACKSON (filter; suit radio) We'll have to draw the backup off the 
tanks.  Won't matter once we're in hypersleep. No other way...

EXT. TOP OF LIFEBOAT

Spence's POV for helmet as the crouches over a flat, rectangular solar  
cells and tugs with her gloves tips at a small access port. She keeps 
losing her  grip; the space suit's gloves aren't designed for fine 
work.

SPENCE (filter; suit radio; talking to keep her head together) Like the  
science fair. I had to scrounge everything... Spent a month desoldering 
a TV I  got out of my uncle's basement...

She manages to get the cover off -- it tumbles backward -- upward -- 
with  the momentum on its removal. Spence peers at a densely packed 
mass of  color-coded wiring.

SPENCE (continuing; filter; suit radio) Hey, Jackson, you want anything  
in particular?

JACKSON (filter; suit radio) How about twenty centimeters of the red 
and  green stuff?

Spence begins to fumble with the wiring.

SPENCE (filter; suit radio) Right. Want anything else while I'm here?

JACKSON (filter; suit radio) Coffee and a danish. Black, one sugar.

EXT. HULL -- LIFEBOAT

Hicks and Jackson are trying to open the larger accessport, this one  
beside a porthole set into a rectangular hatch in the bow of the 
lifeboat. It  isn't easy. Hicks manages to hook the pulse-rifle's 
buttplate under the edge of the  cover. He uses the barrel as a lever. 
The buttplate slips.

HICKS (filter; suit radio) Shit.

He tries again. The cover pops open: move wiring, hydraulics. Jackson  
begins to paw at the wiring.

EXT. TOP OF LIFEBOAT

Spence's POV as she looks down at her prize, a length of red and green  
wire.

SPENCE (filter; suit radio) They're out of coffee, but I got you  
hotwire...

Spence's POV as she glances up, across the hull -- and sees a dozen  
advancing Aliens.

SPENCE (continuing; filter; suit radio) Hicks! They're coming! They 
don't  need suits!

EXT. HULL -- LIFEBOAT

Hicks whirls around with the rifle, too quick a move for zero-g; 
momentum  spins him around and he rolls, out past the prow, but manages 
to come up  SHOOTING. Take out the two foremost Aliens at about twenty 
yards. The rest scuttle for  cover.

EXTREME CLOSEUP

on ammo readout: 09.

ANGLE

Hicks gets to his feet, take a step back, and nearly tumbles again; 
he's  bumped into another emergency airlock, this one still sealed. He 
climbs back  across it and crouches against the raised housing, using 
it to steady his aim. The  Aliens charge again. Five SHOTS, five Aliens 
blown apart. The rest get out of  sight.

EXTREME CLOSEUP

on ammo readout: 04.

ANGLE

Six inches from Hick's faceplate, on the airlock hatch, a red light  
blinks on. The lock starts to open. Hicks scrambles back, the rifle 
ready at his  hip, as the hatch opens -- and a space-suited figure 
straightens up, a yellow  helmet...

CLOSEUP -- HICKS -- REACTION SHOT

HICKS (filter; suit radio; an instant of profound confusion) Rosett...?

ANGLE

The Aliens charge. The figure turns, bringing up a pulse-rifle.

CLOSEUP ON BISHOP -- THROUGH FACEPLATE

as he hoses a full clip in to the Aliens, killing them all.

BISHOP (filter; suit radio) Hicks, help me out of the lock...

ANGLE

Hicks takes Bishop's arm and hauls him over the rim; the android's left  
leg is braced with the length of metal from the elevator, strapped to 
the space  suit with heavy silver tape.

HICKS (filter; suit radio) What happened? You didn't blow the fusion 
back  at twenty-two hundred,

Bishop passes him a fresh clip of ammunition.

BISHOP (filter; suit radio) Two overload is scheduled for twenty-two-  
thirty.

HICKS (filter; suit radio) Why?

BISHOP (filter; suit radio) I thought you might need the time.

JACKSON (filter; suit radio) Bishop? Hick! Come on, we gotta get his  
happening!

Hicks help Bishop across the hull.

EXT. HULL -- LIFEBOAT

CLOSEUP on Spence and Jackson crouching by the open service port. 
They've  made a rainbow spaghetti out of the port's wiring, but Jackson 
holds one raw end  of the hotwire. Spence looks up as Hicks and Bishop 
arrive.

SPENCE (filter; suit radio) What happened to you leg?

BISHOP (filter; suit radio) Molecular fatigue.

HICKS (filter; suit radio) Bishop says we gotta go now.

JACKSON (filter; suit radio) No shit... Well...

She thrusts the hotwire against a contact, producing a burst of sparks.

Nothing happens.

Tries again.

Nothing.

 JACKSON (continuing; filter; suit radio) Third time's a charm.

A bigger burst of sparks. The hatch suddenly pops open with a rush of  
escaping AIR.

JACKSON (continuing; filter; suit radio) How damn! Okay!

Jackson ducks, wedges helmet and shoulder through the opening -- and a  
queen- sized stinger erupts through the back of her neck, slicing the 
suit's  alloy collar ring like butter. Brief but horrible SOUND on 
radio.

SPENCE (filter; suit radio) Jackson!

Jackson's being drawn into the opening by the unseen queen. Spence  
clutches furiously at Jackson's suit, trying to pull her back...

HICKS (filter; suit radio) Forget it! She's gone!

BISHOP (filter; suit radio) Hicks!

Hicks and Spence turn. REACTION SHOT. What they see makes her forget  
trying to save Jackson's body.

The boots of Jackson's space suit vanishes through the lifeboat hatch.

A queen, her crest rising against the stars, leads the swarm against 
them  in a solid wave...

Hicks pumps the pulse-rifle's grenade launcher, sheer reflex, no  
consideration for the effect of recoil in zero-g (pulse-charges have 
been assumed to be

recoilless). The recoil kick him back against the lifeboat as the BLAST  
takes out five of the charging Aliens; sharp CLANG of his helmet 
against the boat's  hull.

CLOSE THROUGH FACEPLACE

Hicks losing consciousness.

ANGLE

Bishop stands alone against the advancing swarm, the boot of his locked  
suitleg wedge into a narrow channel in the hull. He FIRES with a 
robotic  accuracy, the rifle pivoting like the barrel of an automated 
gun turret.

CLOSE ON BISHOP'S EXPRESSION

No anger, no fear -- just total absorption in the task at hand.

ANGLE

Spence had Hicks' gun, is dragging him to his feet.

EXTREME CLOSEUP

on Bishop's ammo readout: working down to 01, steady as seconds on a  
stopwatch --

ANGLE

His last round is for the towering queen -- Android's don't miss.  
Straight into the jaws. Her head explodes.

But the headless body doesn't stop. It stumbles, tumbling forward, 
flips  over, the vast abdomen with its lashing stinger outlined agasint 
the stars...

As Bishop tugs his wedged foot free and rolls, as the stinger whips 
down  to gouge a chunk of bright steel from the hull. The carcass 
smashed into the  lifeboat.  The swarm twitches, hesitates. With the 
loss of the queen's unifying intelligence, the Aliens are reduced to 
their usual level of instinctual  action.

HICKS (filter; suit radio) Bishop! Come on!

Hicks, with Spence, is fleeing across the hull, taking long zero-g 
leaps  -- one more worries about drifting away!

SPENCE (filter; suit radio) The mast, Bishop! The Radio mast!

Bishop starts after them, abandoning his empty pulse-rifle, trying to  
bound along on his good leg, the stiff one obviously in his way, three 
Aliens rapidly  gaining on him. He loses his balance...

Hicks and Spence have almost reached the foot of the radio mast.  
Handholds lead out to the tip.

Hicks sees Bishop struggling to right himself, the Aliens closing in.  
Snatches the rifle from Spence.

HICKS (filter; suit radio; to Spence) Go on! Get out there!

Hicks recrosses the hull to Bishop. SHOOTS the nearest Alien, gets a 
grip  on Bishop's suit, pulls him up, tries for the second Alien but 
misses. They  start for the mast, Hicks FIRING back at the swarm.

Spence is a third of the way out on the mast, body drifting in space,  
clinging to a handhold.

Hick and Bishop haul themselves hand-over-hand along the mast.

BISHOP (filter; suit radio) The fusion package, Hicks... Overload...

HICKS (filter; suit radio) Yeah... But it means we win... Come on.

The swarm closes around the foot of the mast in a single writhing mass.  
One spring onto the handholds and scuttles out along the mast like a 
spider.

Hicks BLOWS it off.

EXTREME CLOSEUP

on ammo readout: 04.

BISHOP (filter; suit radio) Four minutes to overload.

ANGLE

Hicks blasts another Alien -- as a deafening SQUAWK of feedback rattles  
the suit radios, followed by a waves of STATIC.

EXT. SPACE

The U.P.P. interceptor, pitted and scorched by the nuking of Rodina,  
settles toward Anchorpoint on steering jets.

CLOSEUP ON A GUNPORT

sliding smoothly open, reveal the vicious-looking snout of a  Gatling-
style pulse-cannon.

EXT. MAST -- FROM HICKS' POV

as a stream of withering fire cuts a swathe thorough the swarming 
Aliens.

 VIETNAMESE COMMANDO (V.O.) (filter; over static and screaming 
harmonics)  Come! You come!

Followed by a frantic burst in her own language.

EXT. SPACE -- FROM MAST

Spence's POV as the interceptor nears the mast tip, the cannon still  
pumping. The airlock in the interceptor's lower surface slides open. 
Light from  inside.

Spence kicks off from the mast, manages to grab the rim of the  
interceptor's airlock.

Hicks FIRES his last round into an Alien on the mast.

The interceptor still coming down, crumpling the tip of the mast in a  
burst of sparks as Hicks and Bishop kick off. Hicks grabs Spence's free 
hand;  Bishop grabs Hick's ankle. Spence hauls them all into the 
cramped space of the  airlock. The lock closes as an Alien launches 
itself from the mast...

INT. INTERCEPTOR AIRLOCK

SOUND of the Alien as it slams into the lock. Hicks, Bishop, Spence are  
crammed in like sardines.

EXT. INTERCEPTOR LOCK

The Alien scrabbling furiously for a hold...

INT. INTERCEPTOR

As the inner lock opens and the commando plunges her tattooed arms in 
to  yank Spence free. Spence fumbles with her helmet and snaps it off. 
Bishop  pulls himself from the lock; in spite of his leg, he dives for 
the ship's  controls. His hands dart from one switchboard to the next. 
Nothing happens. He look up  through his faceplate at the commando.

BISHOP (voice muffled by his helmet) Go!

She looks at him impassively. Beat. Then reaches past to press a 
sequence  of three buttons.

EXT. SPACE

The interceptor. The Aliens cluster like aphids along the mast. The  
interceptor's ENGINES erupt in a gout of flame.

EXT. SPACE -- ANOTHER ANGLE

The Alien on the airlock loses its grip, tumbles into the rocket blast.

EXT. ANCHORPOINT -- INTERCEPTOR'S POV

The station is receding

The fusion package goes overload.

WHITEOUT. Beat.

FADE TO BLACK.

FADE IN:

A SINGLE STAR

Then another star. Then the interceptor, adrift, showing no lights.

EXT. INTERCEPTOR -- ANOTHER ANGLE

Additional damage visible from the Anchorpoint blast.

INT. INTERCEPTOR

Dim light. The commando is slumped against a wall of dead switches,  
watching Bishop. Hick, Spence, and Bishop wear their space suits, minus 
helmets  and air tanks. Bishop is bending over a panel of exposed 
circuitry, working with  a delicate probe. His suit is open to the 
waist; he wears a miniature  worklight on a band across his forehead. 
Spence is asleep, her head on Hicks'lap.

HICKS Bishop...

Bishop looks up, the beam of the worklight glaring in Hicks' eyes.

BISHOP Yes?

HICKS Bishop, are Spence and I... I mean... Are we infected, man?

A small steady tone SOUNDS, muffled inside Bishop's suit. He puts the  
probe down and reaches into his suit, bringing out his wristwatch.

He looks at the time. The tone stops. He puts the watch down an looks 
at  Hicks. Beat.

BISHOP No, you aren't. I obtained solid parameters on the incubation  
period... Neither of you is a carrier. Neither is she. (glancing toward 
the  commando) Although I couldn't be certain until...

HICKS Your watch? Until you watch went off?

BISHOP Yes.

Bishop reaches into his suit again and brings out a service automatic.

The commando says something angrily, wearily, in her own language.

Bishop hands her the gun. She tosses it aside with evident disgust, 
curls  up, eyes closed.

HICKS That was for us? If we were...

BISHOP Yes. (he looks at the commando again) She's dying, Hicks.  
Radiation poisoning...

HICKS Can we do anything?

BISHOP No.

Spence groans in her sleep. Hicks absently smoothes her hair back from  
her eyes.

BISHOP You're a species again, Hicks. United against a common enemy...

Hicks moves Spence's head, pillows her on a folded jacket, swings his 
way  over to the commando, offers her water from a plastic bottle. She 
refuses it.

HICKS Yeah?

BISHOP The source, Hicks. You'll have to trace them back, find the 
point  of origin. The first source. And destroy it.

HICKS I dunno, Bishop. Maybe we just oughta stay out of their way...

BISHOP You can't, Hicks. This goes far beyond mere interspecies  
competition. These creatures are to biological life what antimatter is 
to matter.

HICKS How do you mean?

BISHOP There isn't room for the both of you, Hicks, not in this 
universe.

 HICKS That's crazy, Bishop...

BISHOP No. You're already at war, Hicks. War to extermination. The 
alien  knows no other mode.

HICKS Hell, man, we been at war all my life. Near enough, anyway. With  
her. (he looks down at the commando) With all her brothers and sisters. 
That's  what got us into this shit in the first place!

BISHOP But now you've seen the enemy, Hicks. So has she. She's not it.  
Neither are you. This is a Darwinian universe, Hicks. Will the alien be 
the  ultimate survivor?

Hicks doesn't answer. He just looks at Bishop. Bishop goes back to his  
circuitry.

CLOSE on Spence's sleeping face, and the face of the dying commando.

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. SPACE

Approach of a large ship.

The PING of homing radar.

ANGLE ON THE HULL

As it slides past, enormous letters: KANSAS CITY.

EXT. SPACE - ANGLE UP

 From below Kansas City as a wide bay opens.

The interceptor comes INTO FRAME and is drawn up into the brightly-lit  
hold.

The bay closes.

EXT. SPACE

Kansas City. Receding. Gone.

The stars.

FADE OUT. 
