



Boiler Room (2000) movie script - Screenplays for You















Screenplays for You - free movie scripts and screenplays                    





About


Links









Screenplays, movie scripts and transcripts organized alphabetically:


#
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

PDF


ALL



Boiler Room (2000)by Ben YoungerMore info about this movie on IMDb.comFOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY 






EXT. GARDEN STATE PARKWAY - NIGHT

Three luxury buses with blacked-out windows speed toward
Atlantic City.  A laser show explodes off of Trump Plaza.

						CUT TO:



INT. BUS - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

SETH DAVIS stares out the window.

Seth is 20 years old.  No menacing physical presence but a
sharpness that you feel right off.  He's a smart kid.
Confident but edgy.  Eyes always darting.

The bus is filled with 19 and 20 year olds.  They wear very
sharp suits: Hugo Boss, Armani, very slick.

They're going nuts.  Cards games in the aisle.  Five guys
throwing dice in the back.  Booze and coke, yelling,
screaming.



EXT. BUS - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

Exterior shots of the casinos bring us into Bally's Grand.



INT. BALLY'S - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

A top level manager for Bally's runs toward them.  He greets
MICHAEL BRANDTLEY with a warm handshake.  Michael owns JT
MARLIN, the company that these kids work for.

		MANAGER
	Mr. Brantley, how are you?

		MICHAEL
	Great, great.

		MANAGER
	Would you prefer to go to the ballroom
	first, or are you going to hit the
	tables right off?

		MICHAEL
	Let's go to the room.  The boys look
	hungry.

						CUT TO:



INT. LARGE BALLROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

A buffet and a full bar set up against a wall.  Staff members
are there to serve.  A huge projection TV occupies another
wall.

The doors open as we approach, and the group enters.  Seth
smiles widely as he enters.  The group has attacked the
buffet and the bar.  A large group of managers are snorting
coke off a glass coffee table.  A dice game is beginning.  At
least 30 guys are in front of the TV betting on a horse race.

		RICHIE
	Holy shit, that's the jockey from
	Venezuela.  He's a sicko.  I heard he
	weighs like forty-eight pounds.

		CHRIS
	No, 119, but you're close, slut.

		RICHIE
	Whatever.  Give me three to one on that
	skinny nigga.

		GREG
	Do me a favor, Richie...

		RICHIE
		(laughing)
	You wanna throw down?

Seth is sitting in an armchair with a drink in his hand.

Michael moves to the front of the room to make an
announcement.  He has a glass of wine in his hand.

		MICHAEL
	Quiet down a second.  I want you all to
	know that those pikers at the NASD are
	finally off our ass.  JT Marlin once
	again has unlimited trading
	authorization.  I told you guys, you
	can't keep a good man down.
		(big applause)
	We are the superstars now.  JP Morgan
	just faxed over their congratulations.
	It said, "Welcome to the Club."  This
	also means that the teams headed by Ron
	and Anthony who were good enough to
	give up their rep numbers, can stop
	cold calling and start trading again.
	Welcome back.  To show you guys just
	how appreciative I am, I have a little
	something extra for you.
	I want all of you guys from those teams
	to go up to suite 418.  We're players
	now, boys, let's celebrate it.  Salute!

They all go wild.

						CUT TO:



INT. SUITE 418 - NIGHT (LATER)

CLOSE UP ON RICHIE, a broker with a bad temper, who is
fucking a prostitute from behind on one of the double beds in
the room.  He's still half dressed.  There is nothing sensual
about it.

We PAN OVER to the other bed where another broker is fucking
a prostitute.  The two men are looking at each other and
laughing.

The women are quiet.  There is a lot of noise coming from the
hallway in the form of lewd CHEERS.

						CUT TO:



INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

There are 17 more guys waiting in line.

		MARC
	Take it to 'em, Richie!!

		TODD
	And take it quick, we're all waiting
	out here.

Everyone laughs as we FADE TO BLACK.  It does down and then
one voice RINGS out, loud and crude.

		VOICE
	Put it in your ass!

						   FADE OUT.

		     THREE MONTHS EARLIER



INT. RECEPTION AREA/JT MARLIN - MORNING

We follow GREG FEINSTEIN through a reception office.  Greg is
a senior broker here at JT Marlin.  He walks tall, wears
expensive clothing, drives a Ferrari.  But if you look close
you can see the high school loser who made good.

An attractive secretary in her mid-twenties, DEBBIE HILLIARD,
picks her head up when Greg walks in.  Debbie is black.
She's street smart and has that "in the know" look about her.

Greg walks straight up to Debbie.  He doesn't look happy.

		GREG
	Morning baby.  You wanna tell me where
	the fuck you were last night?

		DEBBIE
	Not particularly.  And don't call me
	baby.
		(pauses)
	Greg, I'm not sure how better to
	explain this to you, but it's over.

		GREG
	That what you think?

		DEBBIE
		(nonplussed)
	Kiss off would you, I've got work to
	do.

Greg, incensed, GRABS her by the arm as a group of brokers
walks in.  He tries to act like he's showing her something on
the computer but she angrily SHAKES loose of his grip.  Greg
leaves her and walks into...

						CUT TO:



INT. BOILER ROOM - MORNING (CONTINUOUS)

...the trading room of JT MARLIN.  The cold light of this
enormous room almost blinds the viewer.  The room is spartan.

This is no traditional trading house.  Each broker's desk
touches another on either side as well as directly ahead.

It looks like one very long cafeteria style table with
brokers sitting across from and next to each other.  There
are close to twenty brokers sitting at each table.  On the
tables are only two items, phones and index cards.  A
secretary is at the head of each table.  They answer incoming
calls.

We move QUICKLY along one of the tables, passing brokers on
the phones, their pitches melding into one another.

		BROKER #1
	About how much would you say you have
	invested in the market right now?  More
	than a half million, less than...?

		BROKER #2
	No, no, no.  You don't want out now.
	I'm telling you this stock is going to
	thirty.  I'm in very heavy myself.
	Just stay put.

		BROKER #3
	I don't know if you've ever had the
	opportunity to purchase IPO before but
	we have a company that we're bringing
	to market in the next...

		BROKER #4
	Look, we have to move on this right
	now.  This is gonna happen in the next
	week.  We don't want to marry this
	stock.  We're in we're out...

		GREG
	No, I understand why you'd be
	concerned.  You just have to calm down
	for a second.  You see nothing's
	changed.  Our game plan's the same.
	Look, this is off the record, but I
	spoke to the controller this morning.
	He assured me that they will be
	reporting better than expected third
	quarter earnings next month.
		(soothing)
	Right.  See I'm telling you, just sit
	tight, everything's fine.  It's type
	two buying power.  You're golden.  Call
	me in a month from now when you're
	rich.  Bye.

One of Greg's trainees, MARC, approaches with a stack of
cards.

		MARC
	Here you go, Greg.

		GREG
	I hope these are better than the last
	batch of shit you gave me.  You produce
	more wood than Ron Jeremy.

		MARC
	What?  What do you mean?

		GREG
	I see you making your calls.  Listen to
	me, you can't just get on the phone and
	say, 'Can I send you some information?'
	If you want them off the phone so bad,
	why don't you just hang up?  You have
	to excite them about things.
	You want them to beg for a broker on
	that first call.

Debbie walks through the trading floor to drop a package off
at a broker's desk.  Greg watches, seething.

		MARC
	You're right.  I freeze up when...

		GREG
	Just stop pussying out every time
	someone picks up the phone; it's what
	you want.

						CUT TO:



INT. QUEENS COLLEGE DINING HALL - DAY

Three students sit at a table eating lunch.  They're all
white, 19 years old, come from families with money.

		KID
	You still owe me twenty-five bucks.

His friend has a hamburger in his mouth as he hears this and
almost spits it out to answer.

		KID 2
	From what?

		KID
	I spotted you at Douglaston last week.
	Remember?  The birdie on nine?

		KID 2
	Oh yeah, yeah.

He reaches into his pocket and pulls out a bunch of chips
from a casino.  He lays them out on the table and counts out
$25.  All of the chips say "Seth's" on them.

		KID 2 (CONT'D)
	Here you go.  Now pass me the
	sauerkraut, you stank ho.

He takes the chips, counts them, and drops them in his shirt
pocket.  The third friend's interest is perked.

		KID 3
	Yo, where did you get those?

		KID
	Mind your fucking business.

						CUT TO:



EXT. HOUSE - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

A black Acura pulls up in front of an attached home in New
Garden Hills, Queens.  The boys from school get out of the
car and go up to the front door.

						CUT TO:



INT. SETH'S BEDROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

A comforter hangs in front of the window.  Nothing is in
order except for a desk in the corner with a ledger book on
it.

A hard KNOCKING is heard and Seth stirs in his sleep.  The
knocking is heard again and this time Seth straightens up.

						CUT TO:



INT. DOORWAY - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

Seth comes running down the stairs.  The knocking is steady
now.  He opens the door to Josh's raised fist about to knock.

		SETH
	Sorry about that.

						CUT TO:



INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

There are two full-size couches and a coffee table.  A large-
screen TV, VCR, and Sega game system sit in one corner.  The
windows in the room are covered by red-velvet curtains.

The centerpieces of the room are two blackjack tables.
They're for real -- professional felts, cash boxes, stools.

Seth hits the lights.  He stands there in sweat pants and a
"cunning linguist" T-shirt, dealing to the three kids.

						CUT TO:



EXT. HOUSE - DAY

Seth stands at the door of an affluent looking home in
Flatbush.  After one knock, his mother comes to the door.

		MOTHER
	I'm just saying, this isn't good, Seth.
	You're late and your father's really
	upset with you.  He won't even tell me
	what it is.  I just wanted to warn you.

She goes back to the kitchen before Seth can respond.  He
opens the screen door and walks in.  He's nervous.



INT. HOUSE - DAY

His family is eating dinner.  Seth's father, MARTY DAVIS,
does not even look up from his plate.  Marty is a Federal
Judge.  He's an intimidating man both in his work and
personal life.

Seth moves toward the empty seat.  His younger brother NEIL,
is happy to see him though.

		NEIL
	What's up, Seth?

		SETH
	Hey bro, how's school?

		MARTY
	That's a good question.  You want to
	tell me what happened, Seth?

		NEIL
	We didn't know if you were still
	coming.

		SETH
	There was traffic.

		MARTY
	So?

		SETH
	Don't you want to wait till after
	dinner?

		MOTHER
	Yeah, I think that's a better...

		MARTY
	Answer the question.

Everyone stops eating.  There's no more denying the tension.

		SETH
	I dropped out.

		MARTY
	Tell me why.

		SETH
	I gave it a year Dad, it's not for me.
	I'm sure of it.

		MARTY
	So you've been lying to our faces for
	six months now.  Six months.  Schools
	fine, Dad.  My grades are good, Dad.
	Okay, let's leave that for a second.
	If you dropped out then you're not
	getting your student loan checks
	anymore.  Right?  I want to know how
	you're making rent every month.

		SETH
	Dad, please don't ask me that.

There is a long pause here as Seth just stares back at her.

		MOTHER
	You're dealing drugs, aren't you?

		SETH
	No, of course not.  I'm not a drug
	dealer, Mom.

		MOTHER
	Well, what are you doing?  This is
	making me nervous, Seth.

		SETH
	Okay.  There's a business I'm running.
	But I'm earning my money honestly.

Marty reaches into his pocket and takes out a handful of
chips from Seth's casino, SLAMMING them down on the table.

		MARTY
	Is this what you call earning a living?

		MOTHER
		(hysterical)
	What are those, Marty?  Are those
	drugs?

		SETH
	Yes, it's an honest living.  Ask any of
	my customers.

		MARTY
	Customers?  What are you talking about?
	They're people's children from this
	community.
	How do you think I got these?  Anyway,
	it's illegal!  You're running a back-
	door card game!  How do you think this
	reflects on me?  I'm a judge for
	Christ's sake!  If this ever gets
	out...

Seth looks away.  He's just too scared to maintain eye
contact.

		MARTY (CONT'D)
	Are you listening to me?!!

		SETH
	Yes.

						CUT TO:



INT. SETH'S CASINO - NIGHT

The room is now filled with people.  The television is
blasting out a Knicks game.  The tables are at their
capacity.  Many more stand around placing bets on the
dealer's hand.

Seth is dealing on one table and one of his employees, JEFF,
an even younger looking kid, deals at another.  One patron is
at the center of all the action.  He looks very nervous about
the stakes he's playing.

		SETH
		(stone cold)
	That's sixteen.

		CASINO PATRON
	Hit me.

Seth puts a King on top of his hand.

		SETH
	And bust.  I'm sorry.

The patron is fuming over his loss.  He slams his hand down.

		CASINO PATRON
	Fuck!  I cannot win a fucking hand
	tonight.

		SETH
	Hey Steve!

		STEVE (O.S.)
	Yeah?

STEVE is the new guy there.

		SETH
	Get in here.
		(to patron)
	What kind of soda you like?

		CASINO PATRON
		(still angry)
	I don't care!

Steve is standing at the other table struggling with the
plastic on a new carton of Marlboros.  He hands out packs to
customers, then makes his way over to Seth's table.

		SETH
		(holding out car keys)
	Here, take my car and go get Mike a
	coke and a falafel.  You hungry?

		CASINO PATRON
		(surprised)
	Yeah, yeah... sure.  Why not?

		SETH
	Come on, Mike.  It's a roller coaster,
	ups and downs.  You know that.
	Alright, place your bets.

						   FADE OUT.



INT. SETH'S CASINO - NIGHT (LATER)

The room is near empty.  The clock on the wall reads 3:00 AM.
The last two kids there finally call it quits.  No more
money.

		SETH
	See ya guys.

		KID (O.S.)
	Fuck you!

Steve walks them to the door and locks up after they leave.

Seth removes the cash boxes and spills the money onto the
table.  There is easily $5,000 there.  He begins to count,
straightening each bill out as he goes along.

						CUT TO:



EXT. SETH'S DRIVEWAY - NIGHT

A black Ferrari rips around the corner.  Greg and Adam emerge
from the car.  Adam knocks as Greg squeezes past him.



INT. CASINO - NIGHT

Seth jerks his head up from the table.  He puts the money
aside, writes a figure on a pad, and walks toward the door.

						CUT TO:



EXT. DOOR - NIGHT

		ADAM
	He's not gonna let you in.  He doesn't
	know you.  The kid's not stupid, Greg.

A small makeshift metal plate slides open on the wooden door
and we see Seth's eyes looking at the pair.

SETH'S POV

		SETH
	Who's this?

		ADAM (O.S.)
	This is my boy Greg.

The plate closes and the door swings open.

		SETH
	We thought we were done for the night.

		ADAM
	Is it too late to get a couple of hands
	in?

		SETH
	Nah.  Twenty-four/seven, you know that.

Steve takes their coats and hangs them in the closet.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	Hey Steve, go grab a couple of
	sandwiches.

Seth leads them over to the tables and discreetly puts the
cash away.  Greg takes notice.  Seth shuffled the cards.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	Okay, house rules are as follows.  We
	play Las Vegas with the exception of a
	particular side bet.  You can bet over-
	under thirteen on the dealer's hand
	with a loss occurring on blackjack.

		GREG
	That's cute, like the green spot on a
	roulette wheel.

Seth does not respond.

		GREG (CONT'D)
	How many idiots take that bet?

		SETH
	More than you'd think.

Greg laughs and then removes a huge wad of cash.

		ADAM
	Alright give me... four hundred
	dollars.

		GREG
	You didn't say anything about the
	betting.

		SETH
	What were you thinking?

		GREG
	Five hundred Max?

Steve, who has just walked in with the sandwiches stops dead
after hearing Greg's suggestion.

		SETH
	We don't usually service that level of
	action here... but I'd hate to turn
	away a new customer.  Thing is, we may
	not have enough cash here to settle you
	at the end of the night.

		GREG
	That's okay.  You can pay me tomorrow.

		SETH
		(laughs)
	Sure.  How much you want?

Greg unfolds his bank roll and puts down a wad of cash.

		GREG
	Five dimes.

Seth counts out the money on the table.

		SETH
	In what denomination?

		GREG
	Denomination?  Ummm, I'll take three
	Puerto Ricans, two Chinks and a Guinea.

Adam, Steve and even Seth laugh, lightening the mood.

		GREG (CONT'D)
	I'll let you mix it up for me.

Seth takes the money and pushes it into the cash box.  He
then counts up $5,000 in chips for Greg.

		ADAM
	You're such a prick.  Gotta make me
	feel like I'm playing at the kiddie
	table.

		GREG
	If the shoe fits, baby.  Oh shit.  You
	got real chips.

Holding them up to Adam.

		GREG (CONT'D)
		(laughing)
	Look, they even say "Seth's" on 'em.
	This is no joke.

		ADAM
	I told you.

		SETH
	At first we just used Bicycle poker
	chips, you know, the kind you can buy
	in a deli.  Then some kids started
	sneaking in additional funds.

		ADAM
		(laughing)
	Jesus Christ.  Bet you put a stop to
	that shit real quick.

Greg reaches over to the platter for a sandwich.

		GREG
	And you pay for food and drinks for all
	these kids?

		SETH
	I sure as hell don't cook for them.
	I've already lived in four places in
	Queens.  I don't think I ever turned a
	stove on except to light a cigarette.

		GREG
	You and me both.

		SETH
	But I take care of my customers.
	Smokes, food, soda.  Look, I'm not
	stupid, I never buy decaffeinated.

		GREG
		(laughing)
	Holy shit, would you listen to this
	kid.

		SETH
		(all business)
	Alright.  Place your bets.

						CUT TO:



INT. COFFEE SHOP, NYC - DAY

Seth is sitting in a booth waiting for someone.

A Towncar pulls up and Seth's father gets out.  He comes
inside and heads toward the booth.  Seth stands to greet him.

		MARTY
		(cold)
	Hi Seth.

		SETH
	Hey Dad.

The two have an awkward moment as Seth reaches out to embrace
his father.  They're obviously uncomfortable around each
other.

		MARTY
		(gruff)
	So what's up?

Seth is very nervous here.  He's trying to reach out toward
his father.  New territory.

		SETH
	How you doing?

		MARTY
	I'm fine, Seth.  What's on your mind?

		SETH
	I just feel bad about the way things
	went at the house last week.  I feel
	like we just don't get anywhere talking
	at home.

		MARTY
		(cold)
	I'm not sure what there is to talk
	about.  You're a habitual liar.  You've
	dropped out of school, you're running
	an illegal casino out of your
	apartment.  You're putting my career at
	risk.  What do you want to talk about?

		SETH
	Why can't we just discuss this?  Maybe
	you're not seeing my side.

		MARTY
	Your side?  You're doing wrong.  I'm
	not your best friend, here to nod my
	head and sympathize.  That's my your
	mother's racket.  I'm your father.  I
	let you know when you screw up.  Did
	you think I was going to pat you on the
	back for this casino idea?  Tell you
	what an entrepreneur you are?

		SETH
	No.

		MARTY
	So, what do you want from me?  Meeting
	me in a coffee shop is not going to
	change the life you have.  God, if I
	ever asked my father to meet me for a
	cup of coffee to talk about my screw-up
	he probably he probably would have
	laughed.  We didn't have nice little
	chats about why I was a bad boy.
	Whether I was just calling out for
	attention or not.  I got smacked and
	then I didn't do it again.  Much
	simpler.

		SETH
		(mutters)
	Well that really worked great on me,
	Dad.

		MARTY
	What?

		SETH
	Look Dad, I'm sitting here and I'm
	trying to restore what's left of our
	relationship.

		MARTY
		(angry)
	Relationship?
	What are you talking about?  We're not
	dating, Seth.  I'm your father, not
	your girlfriend.  So stop with the pop-
	psychology talk.  Did your mother feed
	you this crap?

		SETH
		(embarrassed)
	No.

		MARTY
	Clean up your life.  Make an honest
	living.  Then we can talk like normal
	people.
		(looks at watch)
	I gotta get back to work.  I'm hearing
	a grand jury indictment this afternoon.

Marty slaps a five dollar bill on the table and leaves.

						CUT TO:



INT. CASINO - NIGHT

It's the end of the night.  Seth sits with Greg.

		GREG
	I'm just saying, this is risky
	business.  You plan on dealing cards to
	college kids when you're thirty-five?
	Think you won't get busted in the next
	two years?  You need to start thinking
	about down-the-line time.

		SETH
	So I should come work for you, huh?  I
	guess it'll be retribution for me
	taking all your money here.

		GREG
		(laughs)
	First of all, I'm not done with your
	here.  And no, you'll only be working
	for me for a short time.  You learn the
	ropes, pass the series seven, then
	you're on your own.  Just ask Adam,
	he'll tell you.

Seth stares at him, contemplating.

						CUT TO:



INT. SETH'S CAR - DAY

Seth is driving on the LIE.  We see the NYC skyline through
the rear window.  He's driving away from the city.

						CUT TO:



EXT. BOILER ROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

It's lunch time as Seth pulls up in his mother's Volvo wagon.
The first sight he comes across is 14 kids in wing-tips and
dress shirts playing street hockey in the parking lot.

There are three Ferraris right in front.  The rest of the lot
is filled with Mercedes SL's, Corvettes, and other exotics.

As Seth closes the car door, he spots a bright yellow "Jewish
Mother on Board".  He throws it on the floor in the back.

						CUT TO:



INT. RECEPTION AREA - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

The room is packed with interviewees.  Some have to stand.
They're all terribly dressed.  Sunday's best doesn't cut it.
The front door opens and Seth walks in.  He wears a sharp
suit.  He walks tall.  All eyes fall on Seth, even Debbie's.

		DEBBIE
	Over here.

		SETH
	Have they started interviewing yet?

		DEBBIE
	No.

		SETH
	How long do you expect the wait to be?

		DEBBIE
	You'll all be going in at the same
	time.

		SETH
	I thought this was an interview.

		DEBBIE
		(finding the words)
	It's a group interview.  You'll see.

She reaches under the desk and pulls out a clipboard.

		DEBBIE (CONT'D)
		(smiling)
	Here.  Fill this out.  I'd say have a
	seat, but that doesn't look like it's
	going to happen.

Seth doesn't have a clue that she is trying to make
conversation with him.

		SETH
	That's okay.

		RUDE KID
	Hey, when's this shit gettin' started?

Debbie doesn't even look up from her desk.

		RUDE KID (CONT'D)
	You hear me?

		DEBBIE
	I hear you.  I'm just not answering.

		RUDE KID
	What the fuck?

She sighs as if she's done talking, then...

		DEBBIE
	Open your mouth again and I'll
	personally guarantee you never get a
	job here.

One of the doors of the trading room opens.  Seth catches a
glimpse of several brokers crouched down, playing dice near
the far window of the trading room.  The door closes in SLOW
MOTION as Seth cranes to get every possible view.

Out walks JIM YOUNG.  Jim is a team leader at JT Marlin.  He
is dressed to the T.  He looks like someone not to be fucked
with.

		JIM
	Alright guys, come this way.

						CUT TO:



INT. BOARDROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

The room used mostly for interviewing and on the rare
occasion a meeting is needed with someone outside the firm.

Jim walks in to find Marc sitting at the head of the table.
He laughs to himself.

		JIM
	I'm sorry, but that's my seat.

		MARC
		(scared)
	Oh man, I'm so sorry.

		JIM
	It's alright.

Marc JUMPS to another seat.  He is chided by one of his
friends, the same kid who was having words with Debbie.

		RUDE KID
	Fucking dumb-ass.

		JIM
	You can get the fuck out of here.

		RUDE KID
		(terrified)
	What?  What?

		JIM
	Don't talk to me, don't look at me,
	just pick your ass up out of that
	Italian leather chair and get the fuck
	out of this room.

He gets up and leaves without saying another word.

		JIM (CONT'D)
	We expect everyone here to treat their
	co-workers with a certain level of
	respect.

Everyone in the room is silent and staring at Jim.

		JIM (CONT'D)
		(calm)
	Now before I get started I have a
	question.  Has anyone here passed the
	series seven?

One hand goes up.  It's one of the few kids who wears a good
suit and wasn't too worried looking in the waiting room.

		SERIES SEVEN
	I have a series seven license.

		JIM
	Good for you, now you can get out too.

		SERIES SEVEN
	What?  Why?

		JIM
	Because we don't hire brokers.  We
	train new ones.

Jim waits for him to leave the room and then calmly
continues.

		JIM (CONT'D)
	This is the deal.  I am not here to
	waste your time and I can only hope
	you're not here to waste mine.  So I'm
	gonna keep this short.  You become an
	employee of this firm and you will make
	your first million within three years.
		(pauses)
	Okay?  Let me repeat that.  You will
	make a million dollars within three
	years of your first day of employment
	at JT Marlin.  Everybody got that?
	There is no question as to whether you
	will be a millionaire working at this
	firm, the question is how many times
	over.

Every kid in the room besides Seth is completely starry eyed
at this point.  Some mouths even hang open.  Seth is excited
too, but is smarter than the rest... he doesn't show it.

		JIM (CONT'D)
	You think I'm joking.  I am not joking.
	I am a millionaire.  It's a weird thing
	to hear, right?  I'll tell you, it's a
	weird thing to sa.  I'm a fucking
	millionaire.  Now guess how old I am?
	Twenty-seven.  You know what that makes
	me here?  A fucking senior citizen.
	This firm is entirely comprised of
	people your age, not mine.  Lucky for
	me, I am very fucking good at my job or
	I'd be out of one.  You guys are the
	new blood.  You're gonna go home with
	the kesef.  You're the future Big-
	Swinging-Dicks of this firm.  Now you
	all look money hungry and that's good.
	Anybody who says money is the root of
	all evil, doesn't have it!  Money can't
	buy happiness?  Look at the fucking
	smile on my face.  Ear to ear, baby.
	You wanna hear details?  I drive a
	Ferrari 355 cabriolet.
		(throws keys on desk)
	I have a ridiculous house on the South
	Fork.  I've got every toy you can
	imagine.  And best of all, kids, I am
	liquid.

Jim takes a pause here and circles the room.

		JIM (CONT'D)
	So now that you know what's possible,
	let me tell you what's required.  You
	are required to work your ass off.  We
	want winners, not pikers.  A piker is
	someone who walks at the bell.  A piker
	asks how much vacation time he gets in
	the first year.  See, people work here
	to become filthy rich.  No other
	reason.  That's it.  You want vacation
	time?  Go teach third grade public
	school.

Jim pours himself a glass of water from a carafe and drinks.

		JIM (CONT'D)
	Your first six months at the firm are
	as a trainee... you make one hundred
	and fifty dollars a week.  After you're
	done training, you take the Series
	Seven test.  When you pass, you become
	a junior broker and you'll be opening
	accounts for your team leader.  After
	you open forty accounts you begin
	working for yourself and then... sky's
	the limit.  Now a word about being a
	trainee.  The other brokers, your
	parents, whoever: they're gonna give
	you shit about it.  And it's true, a
	hundred and fifty a week is not a lot
	of money, but pay no mind.  You need to
	learn the business and this is the time
	to do it.  Once you pass the Series
	Seven none of it will matter.

He pauses to drink.

		JIM (CONT'D)
	Your friends are shit.  You're gonna
	tell them you made twenty-five thousand
	last month and they're not going to
	believe you.  Fuck them!  Your parents
	don't like the life you lead?  Fuck you
	Mom and Dad!  As a trainee you will be
	building a foundation for yourself.
	Think of it as the foundation to a
	building.  Right?  Gotta build the
	foundation before you can put up your
	skyscraper.  You know what I built?
		(takes out a model)
	The fucking twin towers.  Now go home
	and think about whether this is for
	you.  If you decide it isn't, nothing
	to be embarrassed about.  It's not for
	everyone.
	But if you really want it, then give me
	a call on Monday and we'll talk.  Just
	don't waste my time.  Alright.  That's
	it.

Jim walks out of the room leaving the door open behind him.
No one has moved from their seat.

						   FADE OUT.



EXT. BOILER ROOM - DAY

Shot of Seth walking in the building.

						CUT TO:



INT. RECEPTION AREA/JT MARLIN - MORNING

Seth walks in.  From the look on his face alone, you can see
it's his first day of work.  He walks past Debbie.

		DEBBIE
	Hey, Seth.

He stares at her for a long moment.  Her beauty is hitting
him for the first time.  No idea what her name is though.

		SETH
	Hi...

		DEBBIE
	Debbie.

		SETH
	I'm so sorr...

		DEBBIE
		(all smiles)
	It's okay.  I never told you my name.
	Besides, you looked pretty frazzled the
	other day.  I'd be surprised if you'd
	remembered.

		SETH
	First day.

		DEBBIE
		(sarcastic)
	No shit?

Seth laughs.  Likes her already.  She watches him leave.

						CUT TO:



INT. BOILER ROOM - MORNING

It's 8:00 and the trading room is already packed.  Seth sits
at his new desk with a box of cards in front of him.

Greg drops down in a seat next to him.  He picks up the box
of cards and starts right in.

		GREG
	These are the D&B cards.  Dunn and
	Bradstreet.

		SETH
	Good morning.

Greg checks his paper as he continues...

		GREG
	They're the company that supply us with
	our leads.  Every one of these cards is
	an opportunity.  These are good leads.
	People on these cards buy stock.  Your
	job is to call them and get them
	interested in the firm.  You're not
	actually selling stock yet, but you're
	selling the dream.  Get 'em wet and
	tell them that in a month from now a
	senior broker will call them back with
	one idea.

		SETH
	Who are these people?

		GREG
	Average client's forty-five years old,
	from the Midwest, two hundred and fifty
	thousand dollar annual income, three
	million net.  Has a local broker, but
	loves a New York guy who sounds good on
	the phone.  The card's not gonna tell
	you any of that.  Only says their name,
	address and occupation.  You gotta feel
	them out.
		(picks up card)
	Here.  Peter Davis, Vice President of
	Parks Telecommunications.  Guy's
	probably a whale.  See what he's
	playing with.  Truth is it doesn't
	matter these days.  With the DOW where
	it is now, everyone wants a piece of
	the market.  I can close anyone at any
	time anywhere in the country.  Just
	give me a phone number.

JOHN FEINER, the compliance officer, walks out of Michael's
office.  He looks at Seth as he walks by.

		SHERYL
	Greg, I have John Duncklee on line
	three.

		GREG
	I'm not here.  After you qualify the
	guy you send him a press packet.  It's
	all really easy and it'll get you
	feeling comfortable on the phone, which
	is key.  This entire business revolves
	around the phone.  A good broker makes
	over seven hundred calls a day.

		SETH
		(laughs)
	What's the phone bill like here?

		GREG
	This month was approaching four hundred
	thousand.  Now listen to me.  Even
	though you're not actually selling
	stock yet, I want you to remember the
	coda we have here. Did you see
	Glengarry Glenross?

		SETH
	Yeah.

		GREG
	Alright then, you remember ABC?

		SETH
	Always be closing.

		GREG
	Right.  Always -- Be -- Closing.
	That's the attitude you need.  Always
	be closing Seth.  Telling's not
	selling.  Now there's two rules you
	need to know as a trainee.  The rest
	will come later.  Number one, we do not
	pitch the bitch here.

		SETH
	What?

		GREG
	We don't sell stock to women.  I don't
	care who it is, we don't do it.  I'm
	serious.  Nancy Sinatra calls, you tell
	her you're sorry.  They're a constant
	pain in the ass and never worth the
	trouble.
	They will call you every fucking day
	asking you why the stock is dropping.
	And God forbid the stock should go up
	you'll hear from them every fifteen
	minutes.
		(mocking)
	Is it a good time to sell?  It's simply
	not worth the time or effort.

		SETH
	Okay, don't pitch the bitch.

		GREG
	Second rule.  Don't write wood.  A lot
	of trainee are so anxious to get off
	the phone they just steamroll the guy
	into getting the press pack so they can
	hang up.  Then I call in a month and
	say, Hi, you spoke to a junior
	associate of mine last month.  The
	guy's like, Yeah, I'm not interested.
	Bye.  That's a shitty lead.  It's
	fucking wood.  The info we send is
	bullshit.  The important part of the
	call is telling them you have that one
	great idea, and that a broker is going
	to call them back in a month.  This
	shows that we don't just fire a million
	recos a day.  We tell them we have six
	or seven great ideas a year!  They
	don't want to think you're pitching
	them something you read in the journal
	this morning.  Get it?  No wood.

		SETH
	Yeah, I got it.  Chill.

		GREG
	Don't even start with that shit.  I'm
	just telling you what your place is and
	what I expect of you.  I'm making your
	job easier.

This is not the Greg that Seth remembers from the casino.

		SETH
	Okay.  Well what happens if they want
	to buy stock right then?

		GREG
	Alright, now we're talking.  You should
	go into every call thinking just that.
	If they want a recommendation, you put
	the guy on hold, you stand up, and yell
	"RECO" at the top of your lungs.  The
	first senior broker to get to the phone
	gets the sale.

Seth smiles broadly.

						CUT TO:



EXT. GREG'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Seth walks up the path toward Greg's house.  It's a beauty.
The door is open and Seth slowly lets himself in.  He passes
through the living room which as no furniture -- just
cardboard boxes waiting to be unpacked.

In the den there are 15 guys from the firm sitting on the
floor.  They're eating pizza and drinking beer.  A huge TV
sits against a wall, the only thing in the room besides the
pizza.

They are watching the movie "Wall Street".

		ADAM
	Seth!  What's up, man?  Thought you
	weren't gonna make it.  Sit down, grab
	a slice, have a beer.

		GREG
		(pointing at TV)
	Shut-up, shut the fuck up, Gecko's
	coming.  Alright my turn.

The doors to Gordon Gecko's office open and Greg begins.  The
following is intercut with scenes from the film.

		GREG (CONT'D)
	What the hell's goin' on?  I'm lookin'
	at two hundred shares, pal.  I wanna
	know if we're part of it.  We better be
	or I'm gonna come down and eat your
	lunch for you.  Back in two, Alex.

Richie picks it right up.

		RICHIE
	Sorry, Jeff.  Look, I loved it at
	forty, it's an insult at fifty.  Their
	analysts?  They don't know preferred
	stock from livestock.  Alright, we wait
	till it hits south, then we, we raise
	the sperm count on the deal.  Get back
	at ya.

CHRIS VARICK picks it up from there.  He's also a team
leader; but has his shit together more tightly than the rest.

		CHRIS
	This is the kid.  Calls me fifty-nine
	days in a row, wants to be a player.
	Oughta be a picture of you in the
	dictionary under persistence, kid.
	Yeah, now listen, Jerry.  I'm lookin'
	for negative control.  No more than
	thirty, thirty-five percent.  Just
	enough to block anybody else's merger
	plans and find out from the inside if
	the books are cooked.  Looks as good on
	paper and we're in the kill zone, pal.
	We'll lock and load.  Lunch? Oh you
	gotta be kidding.  Lunch is for wimps.
	Okay, Fidel, I'll talk at ya.

Everyone in the room says this line in unison.

		EVERYONE
	How do you do, Mr. Gecko.  Bud Fox.

		GREG
	So you say.  Nice to meet you.  Hope
	you're intelligent.  Where'd you get
	these?

		EVERYONE
	I got a connection at the airport.

		GREG
	So what's on your mind, Kimosabi?  Why
	am I listening to you?

The sound fades down as we see Seth looking around the room.
All the money in the world and no one to share it with.

						CUT TO:



INT. DEBBIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Debbie walks in looking beat.  She's just come from work.
The apartment is small and modestly furnished.  Working
class.

		DEBBIE
	Mom?

		MOTHER (O.S.)
	I'm in bed.

Debbie heads back toward the bedroom.  She walks in to find
her mother in bed coughing.  She does not look well.

		DEBBIE
	Bad day?

		MOTHER
	Miserable.

Debbie gets her mother's medication ready.

		DEBBIE
	Let me make some tea.  You sound really
	congested.

Debbie leaves for the kitchen.

		MOTHER
	How was work?

						CUT TO:



INT. SETH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Seth is on the phone with his mother.  There is a monitor
showing the tables downstairs.

		SETH
	I told you, Mom, I'm not a broker yet.
	I'm a trainee.  I still need to pass my
	series seven test.

		MOTHER
	Oh please, you're a stock broker.  You
	wear a suit to work every day, don't
	you?

		SETH
	Yeah?

		MOTHER
	So?  What are we arguing about then?

		SETH
	Thanks Mom.

		MOTHER
	You're doing great, Seth.  You're
	working your way up from the bottom.
	That's never easy.  I'm very proud of
	you.  And I told you father about
	things.

		SETH
	What'd he say?

		MOTHER
	He's very happy.  Shocked, but happy.
	He's been waiting for you to call him.

		SETH
	Well why doesn't he just call me?

		MOTHER
	One miracle at a time, okay sweetie?

						CUT TO:



INT. BOILER ROOM - MORNING

Seth is on the phone trying to make things happen.

		SETH
	Uh...
		(looking at card)
	...Mr. Mathews please.  Seth Davis.
	From JT Marlin.  No, he doesn't know
	me.  Yes it's concerning investments.
	Hello?

Seth hangs up the phone and stares at it for a moment.

		SETH (CONT'D)
		(muttering to himself)
	Fucking bitch.

He dials another number.

		MARC
	Tech stocks are down today.

		GREG
	Hey Warren Buffet, you trying to e
	cute?  Make the fucking calls!  You're
	not a fund manager!  How's it going
	there, Seth?

Seth shrugs his shoulders.  Greg comes over.  The phone is
ringing.

		SETH
	Hi, Howard Young please.  It's Seth
	Davis from JT Marlin.  No, he's not
	expecting my call.  No thanks, I'll
	call him back.

		GREG
	Okay, first of all there are going to
	be a lot of those regardless of how
	good you are.  But you happen to suck
	dick.  I have this friend who runs this
	other firm.  He gives out this book to
	all his trainees.  The Rebuttal Book.
	Looks like a fil-o-fax.  Has those
	index tabs but they don't say A to B to
	G to H, they say things like Wife won't
	let me, I'm not in the market now, Call
	me back, Send me a prospectus.
	Has a rebuttal for any excuse.  That's
	all the shit you're gonna have to learn
	later.  For now you only have to
	remember one thing.  You can be whoever
	you want on the phone.  So say what you
	have to.  Use a different name if you
	want.  Tell them you're a vice-
	president here.  Just get them on the
	line.  That's the first step.  It's the
	hardest part sometimes, but just get
	the cocksucker on the line.

		SETH
	I don't understand.  How can I do shit
	like that?  Isn't there a compliance
	offer here?  Isn't it...

		GREG
	Illegal?  No, Seth.  Everyone does that
	shit.  Even on Wall Street.  And John
	over there, he works for us.

Greg points to John who is at a desk in the back of the room.

		GREG (CONT'D)
	He's a fucking chimp.  The only
	compliance work he's doing is making
	sure my lunch is still hot when it gets
	here.  He's only here because the SEC
	requires it.  He might have the easiest
	fucking job in the entire world.  Look
	at him I think he's actually
	masturbating right now.

A Fed-Ex package is brought over by Debbie.  She's got a few
of them in her hands.  She smiles at Seth as she drops the
package on Greg's desk.  Greg sees this.

		GREG (CONT'D)
	Bad news.  Stay the fuck away.

Chris walks over.  Debbie continues to hand out packages.

		CHRIS
	Holy shit.  You slut.  You made the
	call.

		GREG
		(smiling wide)
	I did.

Seth sees Debbie picking up packages as well.  One broker is
seen angrily stuffing cash into a Fed-Ex envelope.

		CHRIS
	And you went big too.

		GREG
	I did.

Greg opens the package and removes a good $20,000 in cash.
Seth's attention is snapped back to Greg and the package.

		GREG (CONT'D)
	Fuckin' A.  Only bookie in New York
	that delivers Federal Express.

						CUT TO:



INT. RATNER'S RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Seth and his whole family are having dinner in celebration of
Seth's new job.  Marty looks about as happy as pie.

		MARTY
	So when are you taking the test?

		SETH
	After the training program's over.
	They really want you to get a good idea
	of how things work before you take the
	series seven.  It's a great system.
	I'm really learning a lot.  They're
	very thorough.

		NEIL
	Are you gonna be rich, Seth?

		SETH
	I hope so.

		MOTHER
	God willing.

		MARTY
	I gotta ask you: how come I've never
	heard of this firm?

The question makes Seth nervous.  Familiar territory.

		SETH
	They're a small firm, Dad.  There's a
	million others just like it that you've
	never heard of either.

		MARTY
	I guess what I'm asking is why you
	didn't try and go straight to Goldman
	Sachs or a company of that stature.

		MOTHER
	Marty, why are you starting?

		SETH
		(calm)
	It's okay, Mom.  The reason, Dad, is
	that the larger houses don't hire kids
	straight out of college unless you went
	to an Ivy League school or you want to
	do cash-flow analysis for the next
	fifteen years.  They want you to work
	outside their firm for a couple of
	years to get a sense of the
	marketplace.  That's why almost all
	brokers start in small firms like JT
	Marlin.

		MARTY
		(to Mother)
	See, that wasn't so bad.  He answered
	the question.  This is good stuff,
	Seth.  Good stuff.  So how does it feel
	to have a real job?

		SETH
	It feels real good, Dad.

Seth looks elated.  There's a long content pause.

		MARTY
	All you have to do now is close the
	casino.

		MOTHER
	Marty!  We talked about this.

Seth looks at his watch.  He realizes he's late for
something.

		SETH
	I hate to run, but I'm late to meet a
	friend.

He kisses his Mom and leaves.

						CUT TO:



INT. BAR - NIGHT (LATER)

Seth walks into a dimly lit bar in downtown Manhattan.  It's
a class joint.  He searches the room until he sees Debbie
sitting at a table in the back.

		SETH
	Debbie.

		DEBBIE
		(big smile)
	Hey Seth.  Go get yourself a drink.

						   FADE OUT.



INT. BAR - NIGHT (LATER)

They've already had a couple of drinks by now and are pretty
loosened up.

		SETH
	So who do you live with?

		DEBBIE
	Oh, you mean is the black girl here
	taking care of her grandma because her
	momma's a crack-head?

		SETH
	Yeah, exactly.  I thought it was smack,
	though.  You know you have got to get a
	hold of that edge.  It's kind of sharp
	sometimes.

		DEBBIE
		(embarrassed laugh)
	I know, it's true.  I just got so much
	shit at JT.  Sometimes I have to get
	into that mode just to fend them off.

		SETH
	So why are you there?  It doesn't seem
	like the ideal working environment for
	a black woman.

		DEBBIE
	No, it isn't.  But tell me, how many
	secretaries you know make eighty
	thousand a year?

		SETH
		(smiling)
	One.

		DEBBIE
	Exactly.

		SETH
	You could always go back to school.

		DEBBIE
		(laughs)
	You pompous ass.  What makes you think
	I want to?  College isn't for everyone.
	It's not like every black girl dreams
	of being a marine-biologist her whole
	life.
		(dramatic)
	If only she could get out of the
	ghetto.

		SETH
	Hey, you don't have to tell me.  I
	dropped out.

		DEBBIE
	Really?  Now that's a surprise.

		SETH
		(mocking)
	You know it isn't for everyone.  It's
	not like every Jewish boy wants to be a
	CPA if only he could make Wharton's.

Debbie laughs hard and they settle into intimate eye contact.
Debbie leans toward Seth who pulls away, embarrassed.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	Whoa.  I don't even know what synagogue
	you belong to.

Debbie bursts into laughter.

						CUT TO:



INT. WALL STREET BAR - NIGHT (SAME TIME)

We are at a "broker bar" with Greg, Chris, Richie, and Adam.
The guys have come from work.  They look very confused.

		RICHIE
	Yo.  I thought this shit was a broker
	hangout.  Merryl Lynch, Solomon Bros,
	the big dicks.

		GREG
	Yeah.  What is this?  Looks like an
	insurance salesman convention.

A group of brokers at a nearby table take notice of the guys
and start pointing, laughing.

						CUT TO:



INT. BAR - NIGHT (SAME TIME)

		DEBBIE
	You don't fit in there.  You know that?
	They're all white trash.  To them, this
	is going legit.

		SETH
	What do you mean by that?

		DEBBIE
	Always talking about being a big
	swinging dick on Wall Street.  It's
	funny, 'cause Long Island is as close
	as they're ever going to get.  But you
	could be doing the real thing at a real
	trading house.  Instead you're here.
	You don't need to be making it this
	way.  At a chop-shop.

		SETH
	What are you saying?  JT isn't a chop-
	shop.  We just push the envelope a
	little.  I mean it's not like we do
	anything illegal.  We just push a
	little.  Same as on Wall Street.

Debbie laughs.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	What?

		DEBBIE
	You don't have to convince me.

Debbie raises her glass to Seth.

		DEBBIE (CONT'D)
	To bending the rules.

		SETH
	Alright.  That I can handle.

						CUT TO:



INT. WALL STREET BAR - NIGHT (SAME TIME)

The brokers from the other table are now next to them.
They've been listening in.  One of them approaches.

		JP BROKER
		(smiling)
	Hey.  You guys looking for a broker?

		RICHIE
	Who the fuck are you?

		CHRIS
	Easy Richie, would you?

		JP BROKER
	I thought maybe you guys were looking
	for someone to invest for you.

		GREG
	Hey pal.  We ARE brothers.

		JP BROKER
		(trying not to laugh)
	Really?  You guys with Jacoby & Myers?

		ADAM
	JT Marlin.

		JP BROKER
	Never heard of it.

		CHRIS
	Hey!  Hold on a second.  Who are  you?
	You sell car insurance or something?

The rest of the crew comes over now to back their boy up.

		JP BROKER
	We're with JP Morgan.

		RICHIE
	Yeah right.  And I'm a black Negro.

		JP BROKER #2
	I know JT.  It's a fucking chop-shop.
	Named your firm so it sounds like ours.

		JP BROKER
	What the fuck is with those suits?  You
	look like you're on Gotti's crew.

						CUT TO:



INT. BAR - NIGHT (SAME TIME)

		DEBBIE
	So tell me about your family.

		SETH
	My family?  It's a mess.

		DEBBIE
	Whose isn't?

		SETH
	Yeah I guess.  Well my mom's great.
	Real supportive and loving.  Almost to
	a flaw.  I can do no wrong.

		DEBBIE
	Sounds terrible.

		SETH
	My dad's the mess, but that's not very
	interesting conversation.  What about
	you?

		DEBBIE
	Mom raised me.  No money.  Now I'm
	taking care of her.

		SETH
	What's wrong?

		DEBBIE
	Chronic pneumonia.  Smoked for fifteen
	years.  She's been sick for a while
	now. It makes her so happy that I make
	this salary so I can support us.  It's
	a little scary.

		SETH
	And your Dad?

		DEBBIE
	Rather not talk about my father either.

		SETH
	Boy, I'm so glad we had this
	conversation.  I really feel like I've
	gained this insight into your life.

		DEBBIE
	And me into yours.

They both laugh.

		DEBBIE (CONT'D)
	Tell me something real.

		SETH
	What do you want to hear?

		DEBBIE
	Tell me a story about your dad.

		SETH
	Well I have so many great ones.

		DEBBIE
	Tell me.

		SETH
	Okay. I'm ten years old.  I just got
	this new bike.  A red Mongoose.  You
	know, BMX.  So I'm skidding out in this
	puddle -- Starsky & Hutch style.  My
	foot slips, and the pedal spins around
	hard enough to break my leg.  Real bad
	too.  But I don't fall off the bike.  I
	keep coasting down this hill.  So
	finally I get scared and I jump off.
	Fell right behind a parked car.  Laid
	there for half an hour.  Finally, I
	hear my father screaming my name from
	up the block.  I was so happy that he
	was coming to get me.  He comes around
	the car and sees me lying there.
	There's blood everywhere and the bone
	is sticking out straight through my
	skin.

		DEBBIE
	Oh my god.

		SETH
	I looked up at him, and for the first
	time in my life I saw how much he loved
	me.  He was frozen.  It hurt him to see
	me in that much pain.  So he leans
	down... and slaps me across the face.

		DEBBIE
	What?  Why?

		SETH
	I don't know.  Maybe he was mad at me
	for making him that helpless, or it was
	the only thing he could think of.  I
	don't really care anymore.  What I
	remember now is the look on his face
	when he first saw me.  That's all I
	remember.  That's what I miss.

		DEBBIE
	I'm so sorry.

Debbie leans over and kisses him deeply.

						CUT TO:



INT. WALL STREET BAR - NIGHT (LATER)

Richie is being carried out by two bouncers.

		GREG
	Can we get the fuck out of here now?

						   FADE OUT.



INT. BOILER ROOM - DAY

		SETH (O.S.)
	I'm sorry, sir, I didn't realize...

		DR. JACOBS
	I'm really busy, Seth.

Seth looks over towards Michael's office and sees Greg and
three other team leaders coming out.

		SETH
	I understand.  I'm real busy here
	myself, Doctor.  Look, we're going to
	come back to you in a month with one
	idea and one idea only.  If you like
	what we have to say, great, we'll do
	business.  Worst case scenario you'll
	hear yourself a new business idea.
	Chat about it with your golfing buddies
	and we'll part as friends.  That's
	fair, right?

A nurse is asking the Doctor a question and he loses focus.

		DR. JACOBS
	Ummm what?

		SETH
	Great.  So tell me, Doc, are you
	working with a million dollars in the
	market right now?

		DR. JACOBS
	Who is this again?

		SETH
	Tell me something, you're a doctor.
	Have you ever heard of a drug called
	Fenamul?  It's being manufactured by
	MSC pharmaceuticals.

		DR. JACOBS
	No.

		SETH
	Well it's in the third stage of FDA
	approval right now.  Word is, it's
	going to get approved in the next three
	months.  Could be tomorrow for all I
	know.  Anyway, I'm getting ahead of
	myself.  And you're real busy over
	there.  Why don't I send you out the
	info you requested about the firm and a
	senior broker will call you next month
	with that one idea.

		DR. JACOBS
	Wait, wait, wait, hold on a second,
	forget the info, let's talk about this
	now.  What was the name of the drug
	again?

Seth begins to smile.

		SETH
	You know what, sir, let me pass you on
	to a senior broker who's more involved
	with this particular stock.  Hold on a
	second.

Seth pushes the hold button.  He pauses and then YELLS:

		SETH (CONT'D)
	Reco!!

Everything and everyone in the room stops.  There is a slight
pause and then CHAOS.  About 20 brokers BOLT toward Seth.

Chris is closest.  Another broker JUMPS onto the table
separating him from Seth and clambers over it.  Chris puts on
the steam and gets there first.  The other broker runs
straight into Seth, unable to stop.

Chris regains his composure wiping the smile off his face.

		CHRIS
	Card.

		SETH
	Okay, his name's Dr. Jacobs and from
	the sound of it, I'd say he's
	definitely...

		CHRIS
	Whoa, whoa, I don't wanna hear it, kid.

Chris grabs the card from his hand and looks at it briefly.

		CHRIS (CONT'D)
	Hi, Dr. Jacobs, this is Chris Marlin
	over at JT Marlin.

		DR. JACOBS
	Marlin?

		CHRIS
	Right.  He's my father.

Another broker connects a wire to a jack on the back of the
phone and the conversation is now heard on the PA system.

		CHRIS (CONT'D)
	So my associate tells me you're
	interested in one of our stocks.

		DR. JACOBS
	Yes, MSC sounds like it might be
	interesting.

		CHRIS
	Might be?  Might be doesn't sell stock
	at the rate MSC is going, Dr. Jacobs.
	We're talking about very high volume
	here.

		DR. JACOBS
	Well, I still have to run it by my
	people.

		CHRIS
	That's great, Doc.  If you want to miss
	yet another opportunity here and go
	watch your colleagues get rich doing
	clinical trials, then don't buy a share
	and hang up the phone.

		DR. JACOBS
	Well hold on a second.  I didn't say
	that.  I just wanted to talk more about
	it.

		CHRIS
	Honestly Doc, I don't have the time.
	This stock is blowing up right now.
	The whole firm is going nuts.  Let me
	open the door to my office.

Chris holds the phone up to the 100 brokers standing there
silently.  They begin talking loudly and screaming "Buy,
Sell".  Chris makes a hand motion and they stop.

		CHRIS (CONT'D)
	You hear that?  That's my trading
	floor, Doc.
	Now I have a million calls to make to
	other doctors who are already in the
	know.  I can't walk you through this
	right now.  I'm sorry.

Huge pause.  Everyone looks on waiting to hear what he'll do.
Chris doesn't even look mildly concerned.  Then...

		DR. JACOBS
	Okay, okay.  Let's do this.

		CHRIS
	Now, since you're a new account I
	cannot go any higher than two thousand
	shares.  I'd love to but I just can't
	do it.

		DR. JACOBS
	Two thousand?!  Whoa!  That's way more
	than I was thinking about.  Two
	thousand, Jesus.
		(pause)
	I'm just curious, why can't you sell me
	more than that?

The brokers hold in their laughter.

		CHRIS
	Well, we like to establish a
	relationship with our clients on
	something small before we get to the
	more serious trades.  Let me show you
	several percentage points on this small
	trade and then we'll talk about doing
	future business.

		DR. JACOBS
	That sounds good.  Give me two thousand
	shares.

		CHRIS
	Done.

		DR. JACOBS
	You sure you can't do any better on
	this one?

		CHRIS
	No, I'm sorry, Dr. Jacobs.

		DR. JACOBS
	Alright, let's start with this trade
	then.

		CHRIS
	Great.  I promise we'll go big on the
	next one.
		(feigns masturbation)
	Now do you want the confirmation sent
	to your office or your mansion?

		DR. JACOBS
		(laughs)
	Very funny, Mr. Marlin.

		CHRIS
	Alright, let me put my secretary on.
	She'll take your info.

Chris hits the hold button and then...

		CHRIS (CONT'D)
	Done and done.

The entire firm applauds when he gets off the phone.  The
crowd disperses.  Chris sits down on Seth's desk.

		CHRIS (CONT'D)
	I love doctors, man.  All that money
	and not a clue what to do with it.
	Fucking rollovers.  Hold onto your
	ankles, Doc, here comes the love.

		SETH
	Why'd you put a max on his buy?

		CHRIS
	Didn't you tell him how it works?

		GREG
	He's still a trainee.  He doesn't need
	to know about initial sell limits.

		CHRIS
	Right, right.  Make sure he shows you
	the ropes.  He's too busy calling his
	bookie.  You fucking Hebrews, man.
	Always looking out for yourselves,
	never the trainees.

		GREG
	That's great.  Why don't you go back to
	little Italy now?

Greg points across the room.

		CHRIS
	Why don't you go make a latke dreidel
	boy.
		(back to Seth)
	The reason I capped him is in case he's
	a piker.  See, we're going to go ahead
	and front the money for this sale.
	If he doesn't send the check, I'm the
	one holding the bag.
		(whispers)
	Last commission month a kid on Jim's
	team wrote a million dollar ticket.
	Stock was down three and a half points
	by settlement.  Fucking kid took a one
	quarter million dollar hit.  Besides,
	first sale just whets the appetite.  If
	he's a whale, which it looks like he
	is, then I'll get him on a day when
	there's a real rip.

		SETH
	Rip?

		CHRIS
		(surprised)
	Rip.  Commission.  That's why we work
	here.  We get huge rips.

		SETH
		(quietly)
	I actually still don't know how it
	works.

		CHRIS
	A two dollar rip, which is unheard of
	anywhere on Wall Street, means you're
	walking away with two dollars for every
	share you sell.  Real money.  Jesus
	Greg, you tell him where the bathroom
	is yet?

		GREG
	Seth, I showed you where Chris' desk
	is.

		SETH
	How does Michael afford that?

		CHRIS
	I don't know, but if he's doing it,
	he's making money on it.  Point is,
	don't worry about selling small on the
	first trade.  You service the client
	right and he'll be back for more.  Bide
	your time.  Show him a three percent
	return and he'll trust you to watch his
	kids for the weekend.  If he's serviced
	correctly it's not a matter of whether
	he's making a second trade with you,
	it's a matter of how much.

Chris' secretary calls out from across the room.

		CHRIS (CONT'D)
	Gotta bounce.

Seth stands there in awe.  He sees the potential here.

						CUT TO:



INT. FBI ECONOMIC CRIMES UNIT - DAY

We are looking at a photo of Seth outside JT Marlin.  PULL
BACK to see the photo is on the desk of the director's
office.

DAVID TRUE, a young agent trying to make a name for himself,
is in the office as well.  He's excited.

		DIRECTOR
	Of all the people at JT Marlin you
	picked this kid Davis.  Why?

		TRUE
	Because he's perfect.  He's new, so his
	loyalties don't run that deep.  He also
	seems to be the smartest of this last
	group of trainees.  Used to run a full
	time casino out of his house in Queens.
	Now he just picks up the checks.  He's
	more ambitious than any other trainee
	there.  And I mean by a lot.  The rest
	of them are fucking idiots to this kid.
	He'll turn state's.  No question.

		DIRECTOR
	How are you gonna get to him?

		TRUE
	I'm working on that.  We just started
	surveillance.  We'll get to him.

						CUT TO:



EXT. MICKEY'S - NIGHT

This is a local bar near the office.

Several exotic cars are parked outside.  The sight is
incredibly strange in this lower-middle class neighborhood.
Greg's Ferrari is there and we see the license plate: "2
RIP".



INT. MICKEY'S - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

About 35 brokers are here drinking.  Seth sits at a table
with Greg, Adam, Chris and a group of junior brokers and
trainees.

		CHRIS
	What were you doing before you came on?

		TRAINEE 2
	I work at the 7-11 in Babylon.

		GREG
	You mean worked.

		TRAINEE 2
	No, I mean work.  I still do two shifts
	every weekend.  A hundred and fifty
	dollars a week just doesn't cover it
	all.

		ADAM
		(sympathetic)
	No, it doesn't.

		TRAINEE 2
	I don't mind it though.  So I'll live
	like a nigger for six months.

Seth snaps his head up at this comment, amazed that it was
said with such assertiveness and clarity.  No one else
budges.

		CHRIS
	What about you, Seth?  What were you
	doing before you found JT?

		SETH
	Well I was, actually still am, involved
	in the gaming industry.

		CHRIS
	Really!  AC, Foxwoods, Vegas?

		SETH
	Atlantic City.

		CHRIS
	What'd you do there?

		SETH
	I won.

Everyone laughs.  Seth takes out his key chain which is a $50
dollar chip from his casino.  He SLAPS it on the table.
Chris smiles and then slaps a pair of dice down on the table.

		CHRIS
	You wanna roll, slut?

		SETH
	You wanna lose?

		CHRIS
	Oh shit, we got a player.

						CUT TO:



INT. BACK OF BAR - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

We move around a jukebox where, in an empty space next to the
bathrooms, we see six brokers kneeling, playing dice.

They're making a lot of noise, yelling at each throw, cursing
or cheering depending on which way the money is going.

		CHRIS
	I got one-fitty against.

		RICHIE
	Booked!

		ADAM
	I got one hundred against.

		SETH
	Booked.  Wait, who's got the roller?

		CHRIS
	come on, somebody cover Greg.

Michael Brantley walks in at this point and pushes his way
down into the circle.  Everyone goes nuts when they see him.

		MICHAEL
	Alright, I got the roller.  I can't
	believe you guys aren't fighting over
	it.  Betting against Greg's roll is the
	only sure thing there is in the world.
		(to Greg)
	What are we going, two hundred dollars
	on this?

		GREG
	Booked.

						   FADE OUT.



INT. BACK OF BAR - NIGHT (LATER)

Seth is out of the game watching from the side.  Greg's luck
is atrocious and he too is soon out.

		GREG
		(to Seth)
	Let's go get some reserves.

Greg bumps into a local coming out of the bathroom.

		LOCAL
	Quit staring and just apologize.

The dice game comes to a halt.  All eyes are on this
confrontation.  Richie does not wait for it to sort itself
out.

		RICHIE
	He doesn't have to say shit.  Now why
	don't you go back to your Heineken and
	shut the fuck up.

		LOCAL
	Was I talking to you?

		RICHIE
	Do I give a shit?  If you're talking to
	me, then you're talking to me and my
	fucking crew.

The local sees what he's up against and wisely opts out.

Richie decides to have a go anyway GRABBING him by the back
of the shirt yanking him back into the small alcove.

						CUT TO:



EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

We move along the wall until we pass a door which FLIES open.

Richie pulls the guy outside with the help of three other
brokers.  Richie does not waste any time once outside.  He
KNEELS quickly, coming down on his stomach.  The man's face
raises off the floor in response and Richie ATTACKS his head.

He stops as suddenly as he started, stand up, and spits on
him.  The man is completely unconscious.  Only Seth carries
the expression of genuine shock.  The others have seen this
before.

Richie goes back in and closes the door.

						CUT TO:



INT. FERRARI - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

Greg is driving.  Seth still has a blank look on his face.

		GREG
	You okay?

		SETH
	I just, I, I'm a little disturbed you
	know.  I mean Jesus didn't that bother
	you?

		GREG
	Me?  You think I was watching?  I can't
	look at that stuff, makes me nauseous.
	You have to understand.  These are not
	the kids you and I grew up with.
	Remember in Hebrew school when a
	shoving match was a big deal?  Worst
	case scenario, someone's yarmulka got
	knocked off.

		SETH
		(laughing)
	It's true.

		GREG
	These guys are no joke.  They get
	tanked up, throw a quick fist.  And
	then some of them actually like it.
	Like Richie.  He probably thought I was
	being tough back there, just staring at
	that guy.  I was shitting my pants.

		SETH
	I saw.

		GREG
	Thanks.  Those fucking Guineas, half of
	them do coke.  They all drink.  No
	stability, zero capital.  They make all
	this money and they're always living
	three steps ahead.  Do you know there
	are guys in this firm that make close
	to a million a year and couldn't get a
	loan for a Honda because their credit
	is so bad.  Everyone's just waiting for
	the fifteenth of the month.  It's like
	they may drive a Porsche but they don't
	have ten bucks to put in the gas tank.
	Nigger rich.

Seth looks at Greg.  He's not the person he thought he knew.
The two drive on in silence.  Greg passes JT Marlin.

		SETH
	Hey, drop me off.  I want to get my
	car.  I don't think I'm going to stay
	at the bar much longer.

Greg pulls into the lot where Seth's car sits.

		GREG
	Alright, I'll see you back at Mickey's
	then.  Oh, on the other thing.

		SETH
	Yeah?

		GREG
	Don't forget what I told you about
	Debbie.  She's trouble.

		SETH
	I don't even...

		GREG
	Seth, I see what goes on.  And I'm
	telling you as your friend, she's a
	whore, Seth.  A fucking whore.

		SETH
	Good thing you stopped dating her, huh?

Seth gets out of the car before Greg can respond.



EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

Seth unlocks his car door and then realizes he's forgotten
his bag upstairs.  He goes into the building.

						CUT TO:



INT. BOILER ROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

He goes straight to his desk and picks up his bag.  As he
turns to leave he hear a HUMMING NOISE coming from the back.

There is a small alcove with a copier in the back.  A man in
there bent over a smaller machine Seth cannot see.

Seth recognizes him as John Feiner.  The machine is a
shredder.  John is stuffing the contents of five large boxes
through this tiny shredder that sits on a waste basket.

		SETH
		(whispers)
	Holy shit.

						CUT TO:



INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Seth finds himself seated in the same room as he did three
months earlier with the guys who were there for the
interview.

		JIM
	I want to talk to you about appearance.
	Most of you dress like shit.  I don't
	know what your financial situation is
	like right now but you need to buy at
	least one decent suit.  There is a
	minimum level of aesthetic
	professionalism that we have here.  In
	a couple of months you'll be able to
	outfit your whole closet, but for now
	just get something to hold you over.
	There's an important phrase that we use
	here and I think it's time you all
	learned it.  "Act as if".  Do you
	understand what that means?  Act as if
	you are the fucking president of this
	firm.  Act as if you have a nine inch
	cock.  Act as if.  To do this properly
	you need to at least look the part.  So
	go get dressed.  Secondly, it's time to
	get your Series Seven books.  No need
	to get nervous.  If you study you'll
	pass.  Then you begin trading as an SEC
	licensed broker.  Then you're a fucking
	millionaire.  It's that simple.  I need
	three hundred from each of you for the
	books which will be returned if and
	when you pass the exam.  And I'll need
	that tomorrow.

There is a slight murmur in the room now.  One of the
trainees turns to another and whispers.

		MARC
	I'll just ask my mom.

		TRAINEE 2
	Yeah, I'll have to do the same thing.

Others are discussing where they will come up with the money
as the meeting comes to a close.  Jim gets up from his chair.

		JIM
	Okay then.

Seth is already up and walking towards Jim.  He takes out a
roll of cash from his breast pocket and peels off three
hundred dollar bills in front of Jim.  He looks proud doing
it.

		SETH
	Here you go.

All the other trainees stare.

		JIM
	What are you, last night's erection?

		SETH
	Yeah, you know.

Jim slaps him on the shoulder as he walks out.

						CUT TO:



INT. BOILER ROOM - MORNING

We open on a Polish broker working his magic on the phone in
his native tongue.  PAN ACROSS the room to Seth dialing a
number.  He looks frustrated.  Chris is sitting next to him.

		CHRIS
	Go ahead do it.  Just try it, you'll
	see.

		SETH
	You sure?

		CHRIS
	Yeah.  You're gonna feel so much
	better.

The other end of the line picks up and Seth looks down at the
card in front of him.

		SETH
	Yeah hi, Steve?  FUCK YOU!

Seth hangs up laughing hysterically along with Chris.

MONTAGE BEGINS



INT. SETH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Seth studies for the series seven while looking up
occasionally at the monitor to watch the action on the tables
downstairs.



INT. BOILER ROOM - DIFFERENT DAY

		CLIENT (O.S.)
	Look, Seth, Seth, I don't want to be
	rude.

		SETH
	Bob, be rude, be rude.  Hang up the
	phone.
		(pauses)
	You won't.  You wanna know why?
	Because you see value!  I'm money in
	the bank.  I'm your kid's college fund
	for Christ's sake.  That's great.  If
	we were looking at a long stock over a
	long term  period I'd be talking about
	PE ratios and earnings with you right
	now.  The fact is, I'm not looking to
	marry the stock.  We're in, we're out,
	three, four weeks.  Look, I'm not a
	rookie broker opening accounts for a
	living.

All of the brokers at the table watch and laugh in respect.



INT. RECEPTION AREA - DIFFERENT DAY

Seth is talking to Debbie.  Greg gives them a dirty look.



INT. BOILER ROOM - DIFFERENT DAY

Seth is on the phone again, pacing quickly.

		SETH
	What do you mean you'll pass?  Alan,
	the only people making money passing
	are NFL quarterbacks and I don't see a
	number on your back.



INT. BOILER ROOM - DIFFERENT DAY

Seth is on the phone.  He grabs a twinkie off another
broker's desk.  The line answers as he is unwrapping the
snack.

		SETH
	Yes, how are you, James?  Seth Marlin
	over at JT Marlin.

		JAMES
	Take me off your list!!

		SETH
	Okay, I'll take you off my list of
	successful people today.



INT. BOILER ROOM - DIFFERENT DAY

It's lunch time and Set remains at his desk studying for the
series seven.  He looks up to see a group of brokers coming
out of Michael's office.



INT. BOILER ROOM - DIFFERENT DAY

		SETH
	Listen, if you couldn't pull three
	thousand together your name wouldn't be
	on my desk during business hours.  What
	do you mean you don't have it?  John,
	please, you're embarrassing me.  I'm
	pitching you from under my desk.  I'm
	embarrassed.



INT. BOILER ROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

Seth is at his desk using a pair of scissors to cut a swath
of cardboard from a box.  He writes in big swooping letters
and then places it on his desk revealing the message...

Be Rude, Make Them Hang Up.

END MONTAGE

						CUT TO:



INT. BOILER ROOM - NIGHT

Seth's the only one left.  All of the overhead lights are
off.  He is reading the contracts from the last several
IPO's.

		SETH
	Holy shit.

He had the different contracts lined up next to each other
and is comparing the names listed from the private equity
source.  They're the same on every prospectus.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	Christ, they're all the same.

		DEBBIE
	What's the name?

Seth almost JUMPS out of his seat.  Debbie is standing
quietly in the dark at the head of the table.

		SETH
	Shit.  You scared me.  How long have
	you been standing there?

		DEBBIE
	I just walked up now.  I'm sorry.

Seth tries to hide the contracts under some papers.

		DEBBIE (CONT'D)
	Interesting reading?

		SETH
	This?  It's just the prospectus from
	the last IPO the firm put out.

She walks around and puts her hands on his shoulders.  She
doesn't seem to care.  He looks pretty nervous.

		DEBBIE
	I know what it is.  I asked you if it
	was interesting.  You may be the first
	person to ever read a JT prospectus.
	What are you looking for?

		SETH
	Some chocolate love.  Should I practice
	my pitch?  I know it turns you on.

She smiles widely as she sits on the desk facing him, her
legs touching his.  He kisses her, then picks her up gently
and puts her on the table.

						CUT TO:



INT. SETH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT (LATER)

The two are lying in bed.  Debbie looks happy.  Seth looks
like his head is in another place.

		SETH
	I saw John Feiner shredding a bunch of
	documents the other night.

		DEBBIE
	What?

		SETH
	Yeah.  He was in the back late at
	night.  I was going to get my bag.

		DEBBIE
	Did he see you?

		SETH
	No.
		(pause)
	What's going on over there?

		DEBBIE
	What do you mean?  You know what's
	going on.

		SETH
	You think they're doing a lot of
	illegal shit?

		DEBBIE
	Come on, Seth, you can't have it both
	ways.  You say you like the hard sell
	and the money but then you question it
	when you see something that's a bit
	off.  Either admit that it's not
	charity work and enjoy, or get out.
	But going back and forth like this is
	just tearing you up.

						   FADE OUT.



EXT. YOUNG ISRAEL OF FLATBUSH - DAY

The synagogue stands tall right off of Coney Island Ave.
Seth runs up to the front where his father is waiting for
him.  Marty puts his hand on Seth's shoulder as they walk in.

						CUT TO:



INT. BOILER ROOM - DAY

Seth is closing a whale.  Chris stands next to him, watching
and helping.  He's pitching a Midwesterner named DEAN.

		SETH
	Dean, I'm not a rookie broker opening
	accounts for a living.  Ask me whatever
	you want.  But I'll tell you this.  I'm
	going to give you over to my secretary.
	You call me when the stock doubles.

Seth pushes hold.  The table erupts in cheer.  Debbie is
there as well.  She too congratulates Seth.  He's beaming.
Greg comes over to the table.  He goes straight to Adam.

		GREG
	What happened?

		ADAM
	Seth just closed this guy for ten
	large.

		GREG
	Hey Seth, get over here.

		SETH
	Hey Greg, I just closed this huge
	account for you.

		GREG
	What the fuck are you doing?  You just
	violated a huge SEC regulation.  Who
	told you to start closing accounts.
	You're a fucking trainee.

		SETH
	You're kidding right?  You're not?  You
	told me I could use a different name on
	the phone.  Act as if!  I figured I'd
	take the initiative and make you some
	money.

		CHRIS
	Greg, I was standing right next to him
	the whole time.  I would have stepped
	right in if the kid got into trouble.

		GREG
	Hey!  You got a conoli you can stick in
	your mouth.

		CHRIS
	No.  You got a menorah you can shove in
	your ass?

		GREG
	I don't care about the money, Seth.
	Imagine if every trainee started
	handling their own recos.  This shop
	would be closed in about a week.

		SETH
	This is about something else.  Isn't
	it?

		GREG
	What would that be?

Greg turns around to see Debbie.

		GREG (CONT'D)
	Don't you have to answer the phones or
	something?

She laughs at him but doesn't move.  Greg sees that the boys
are heading into Michael's office for their lunch time
gathering.  He decides to leave things for now.

		GREG (CONT'D)
	We'll finish this later.

He walks toward the office when Jim steps out for a moment.

		JIM
	Hey Seth.  You just earned a spot pal.
	Get in here.

Greg is fuming but has to hide it.  He pats Seth on the back.

		GREG
	Big time baby.  We'll get to see if
	you're as good as you say you are.  It
	gets pretty fucking hectic in there,
	little man.

Seth walks toward the office.  Greg stays behind.

		GREG (CONT'D)
	What the fuck was that?  Don't tell me
	he's why we're not hitting it anymore.

		DEBBIE
	Hitting it?  We were never hitting it.
	And he's not the reason, Greg, you are.

						CUT TO:



INT. MICHAEL'S OFFICE - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

A group of brokers stand around Michael's conference table.
Seth is standing in the doorway as they lift a huge craps
felt onto the table.  Jackets are removed.  Seth looks
shocked.

The game begins as Michael pulls out a set of dice.

						   FADE OUT.



EXT. BOILER ROOM - NIGHT

Seth is getting into his car.  He sees Michael and a couple
of other senior managers walking out of the building.  They
walk away from their cars toward another office building.

Seth follows keeping his distance walking next to the
shrubbery.  He sees them go into the building.  He turns
away.

						CUT TO:



EXT. BROOKLYN STREET - NIGHT (LATER)

Debbie gets out of her car and makes her way toward her
building.  Two men approach her from the shadows and she
begins to RUN, but they intercept her at the front door.

Debbie screams out and then suddenly stops as soon as she
sees the FBI badges they are holding in front of her face.

		TRUE
	Special Agent True, FBI, this is Agent
	Etkin.  Ms. Hilliard, we'd like to talk
	to you about your relationship with
	Seth Dais.  Oh, and about your mom's
	health.

						CUT TO:



INT. SETH'S APARTMENT - MORNING

It's a Saturday morning.  Seth is sitting at the kitchen
table eating breakfast.  He has several IPO contracts out on
the table.  He reads as he eats.  The PHONE RINGS.

		SETH
	Hello?

		SALESMAN
	Hi, this is Ron calling you from the
	Daily News.  How you doing this
	morning?

		SETH
	I'm not interested.

		SALESMAN
	Okay.  I'm sorry to have bothered you.
	Have a nice day.

		SETH
	That's it?  That's your pitch?  You
	consider that a sales call??!

		SALESMAN
	Well, ummm...

		SETH
	You want to sell me a paper right?
	Well you guys call me every Saturday
	and I get the same half-assed attempt.
	You wanna close me?  Then sell me.

		SALESMAN
		(hesitantly)
	Alright.

		SETH
	Go ahead, start again.

		SALESMAN
	Okay... Hi, this is Ron from the Daily
	News.  How you doing this morning?

		SETH
		(smiling)
	Shitty.  What do you want?

		SALESMAN
	It's not what I want, sir... it's what
	you want.

		SETH
	Alright, now you're talking.  What are
	you selling?

		SALESMAN
	I'm offering you a subscription to the
	Daily News at a substantially reduced
	price.  We're trying to reach out to
	people that have never had home
	delivery before.

		SETH
	So, everyone else that already has a
	subscription is getting fucked on this
	one huh?

		SALESMAN
	...Yeah, I guess so.

		SETH
	Good, I can live with that.  Now why do
	I want your paper?  Maybe I should get
	the Times or the Voice.

		SALESMAN
	Well the Village Voice is free, sir, so
	if you want it you should certainly
	pick it up.  But the Daily News offers
	you something no other paper can, a
	real taste of New York.  We have some
	writers on staff that have been with us
	for over fifteen years.  We have the
	best features!  More photographs than
	any other daily in New York!  And we
	have the most reliable delivery in the
	city!  Now what do you think??!!

		SETH
	Alright, Ron.  Now that was a sales
	call.  Good job!

		SALESMAN
	So are you going to buy a subscription?

		SETH
	No.  I already get the Times.

Seth then hangs up smiling and picks up his spoon.  The PHONE
RINGS again and Seth picks up, irritated.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	What?

		CHRIS (V.O.)
	Well I thought we'd start out with a
	couple of drinks, then maybe dinner.
	Then depending on how things go, a
	little ya-ya.

		SETH
		(laughing)
	Shut-up slut.

		CHRIS
	You da slut.

		SETH
	Alright.  I'll be the slut.  So what's
	up?

		CHRIS
	Wanted to know what the story was for
	later.  It's your night so you decide,
	Mr. Junior Broker.

		SETH
	Well, I was thinking that we should go
	into the city.  You guys are always
	drinking at those shitty local bars.  I
	say we go to a decent bar with decent
	poo-poo.  If I have to look at one more
	housewife smoking a Newport I'm gonna
	fucking puke.

						CUT TO:



EXT. CHRIS' PLACE - NIGHT

Seth walks up to the garden apartment.  It's 180 degrees from
Greg's place.  Small, old, in a blue collar neighborhood.  He
RINGS the bell.  Chris opens the door within seconds.

		CHRIS
	Come on in.  I want you to meet my
	mother.

		SETH
		(mutters to himself)
	Jesus.  Am I the only one who doesn't
	live with their mother?



INT. CHRIS' PLACE - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

The apartment, though small, is utterly cluttered with very
expensive things.  Mostly electronics -- Incredible stereo,
huge screen TV, every kitchen gadget ever invented.  There's
barely a path to walk.

		CHRIS
	You want something to drink?

		SETH
	Nah, I'm okay.  Hey let me ask you
	something, Chris.  Do you ever wonder
	how we get the rips that we do?  I mean
	how is it that we get rips that pay out
	ten times the amount of any major firm?

		CHRIS
	Are you kidding me?  That's the wrong
	question to be asking.  Who cares how.
	The only thing you should be wondering
	about is how you're gonna get laid
	tonight.

		SETH
	I'm serious.  Did you know that SEC
	regulations state that a maximum rip
	allowed is five percent of the sale.
	We're making four times that.

		CHRIS
	What are you doing, Seth?  Aren't you
	happy with the way things are going?

		SETH
	Yes.

		CHRIS
	So what are you doing making trouble
	for yourself?

		SETH
	Nothing.  I'm just curious.  Aren't
	you?

		CHRIS
	No.  Not at all.

Chris walks out of the kitchen.

						CUT TO:



INT. CHRIS' RANGE ROVER - NIGHT (LATER)

Seth, Chris, Greg, Richie and two of their friends from
another firm, Steve and Roger, are driving on the LIE.
Besides for Seth, they are all wearing suits.

Jay-Z blasts on the system.  All heads are bobbing
simultaneously.  Shots of the approaching New York skyline.

		RICHIE
		(looking at NYC)
	That's it right there, baby.  That's
	where I'm gonna be next year.  I'm
	gonna get me a phat space in Tribeca.
	Then all you punks can come see what
	real living is.

		GREG
	Yeah right.  You'll still be at exit 53
	off the LIE motherfucker.

The song in the car changes and Richie recognizes it.  He
raps along.  Seth jumps in.  Greg, however, doesn't look
happy.
He's pissed that Seth has gotten so close with his friends.
They make their way down 2nd Ave and park near a trendy
restaurant.

						CUT TO:



INT. TRENDY RESTAURANT - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

As soon as they get in the place all eyes fall on them,
mockingly.

		ROGER
	Jesus Christ, look at this.  They love
	us.

		RICHIE
	We have got so hang out in the city
	more often.

The host makes her way over to the group.  She is stunning.
Tall, beautiful, English accent.

		HOST
	Five for dinner?

		STEVE
		(lewdly)
	And then some.

The host turns her back on him and takes them toward a great
table in the corner.  It's a curved booth facing the bar.

		ROGER
	Oh shit.  They're giving us the
	phattest table in the place.

All of the guys are excited as they approach the table, even
Seth.  The host stops, places a menu on the table, and
then...

		HOST
	Oh, I'm so sorry.
		(picking up menu)
	This table is actually reserved for a
	party of six.  I have a table for you
	in the back though.

Smiles disappear at this news.

		STEVE
	Hey!  We are a party of six.  See,
	there's six of us.  We want this table.

		HOST
	I'm sorry it isn't available.  Now
	follow me.

The host takes them to a small table better suited to four
people.  The busboy runs two chairs over.

						   FADE OUT.



INT. TRENDY RESTAURANT - NIGHT (LATER)

They have begun to eat their food and there are many beer
bottles on the table.  Richie returns from the bathroom.

		RICHIE
	Who UAT'd this Budweiser for me?

		ROGER
	I did, what's wrong?

		RICHIE
	I hate Bud, send this shit back.

Seth leans over toward Chris and whispers...

		SETH
	Uat?

		CHRIS
	Unauthorized Trade.

		SETH
	Gotcha.

		STEVE
	So Seth, any grips yet?

		SETH
	Yeah.  You know what I hate?  Getting
	past the secretaries.  It doesn't
	matter that you're a broker calling
	from NYC.  It's still a sales call and
	that they know.

		STEVE
	It's true.  It don't matter if it's the
	Avon lady or Merryl Lynch.  The good
	secretaries can smell a sales call.

		CHRIS
	I remember when I was cold calling, the
	shit I'd do.  I'd get on the phone and
	say, Can I speak to Jim?  Secretary's
	like, I'm sorry, but Jim isn't in the
	office.  I'd be like, that's funny
	because I just saw his car in the lot
	about five minutes ago.
	Next thing you know, Jimbo's on the
	phone because you showed the lady you
	weren't fuckin' around.

		ROGER
	You guys have it easy.  JT Marlin could
	be any kind of company.  I have to get
	on the phone and say, Hi, it's Roger
	from Investments Incorporated.
	Secretary's like, "Is this concerning
	investments?"  Ummmm, no?

The group bursts into laughter.

		SETH
	You guys know what I'm going to do?

		GREG
		(suddenly)
	What the fuck do you know?  You just
	passed your seven this week.  Haven't
	even popped your cherry yet.

All eyes on Greg, surprised at his tone.  Seth ignores him.

		SETH
	I'm going to open a fire called Bob's
	plumbing.  You get on the phone and
	say, Yeah tell him it's Bob from Bob's
	plumbing.  He'll be like, Oh, it's the
	plumber guy, yeah I'll take the call.
	Everyone talks to their plumber.

Laughter all around.  Greg realizes he is alienating not only
Seth, but his friends too and so he makes amends...

		GREG
	Alright guys.  I want to make a toast
	to the man of the night.  Highest
	Series Seven score in the whole firm.
	You are the big swinging dick tonight.

		CHRIS
	Cheers, slut.

Everyone drinks.

		RICHIE
	You know why he's this happy, Seth?

		SETH
	Oh I know.  He's thinking about the
	forty accounts I have to open for him
	before I'm on my own.  God bless the
	junior broker program, huh, Greg?

		GREG
	Oh, I don't care about that.  I'm just
	excited for your promising future.

Everyone laughs.

A table of gay men have been sitting next to the guys and are
finally fed up with the noise.  One of them turns around.

		GAY MAN
	Hey, do you guys think you could keep
	it down some.

		SETH
	Yeah, no problem.

		STEVE
	Why don't you guys just concentrate on
	your food instead of us.

		RICHIE
	Hey, what are you eating over there
	anyway?  A little tube snake smothered
	in underwear?

The brokers go bonkers.  They're laughing hysterically.

		STEVE
	I heard the hot dogs are real good here
	too.  They got foot-longs.  You like
	those right?  A little tough to
	swallow, but they're good.

At this comment, the other two men at the table sit straight
up, ready to engage Steve and Richie.

		GAY MAN
	Great outfits, you guys just come from
	a City Council meeting?  Or you just
	trying to score with the bridge and
	tunnel crowd?

		STEVE
	You know what they should do with you
	guys?  They should put all of you on a
	fucking island somewhere.

		GAY MAN
	Yeah, guess what?

		STEVE
	What?!

		GAY MAN
	You're on it!

						CUT TO:



INT. GENERIC OFFICE - MORNING

HARRY REYNARD sits at his desk doing paperwork.  Average man
somewhere in corporate America.  Has a photo of his wife and
two kids on the desk.  His PHONE RINGS.

		HARRY
	Hello?

INTERCUT WITH:



INT. BOILER ROOM - DAY

		SETH
	Hi Harry, this is Seth Davis over at JT
	Marlin.  How you doing this afternoon?

		HARRY
	Fine, thanks.

		SETH
	You got a call from an associate broker
	of mine last month and I just wanted to
	know if you enjoyed the information we
	sent you.

		HARRY
	What information?

		SETH
	If you get as much mail as I do you
	probably brushed it aside, but more
	importantly we made a commitment to get
	back to you.  I am presenting you with
	an investment opportunity that I think
	you'll find very interesting.

		HARRY
	Well thanks, but I'm not really in the
	market for that right now.

		SETH
	Tell me Harry, are you married or
	happy?

Harry laughs at this remark.  He finds it genuinely funny.

		HARRY
	Actually, I've been married for ten
	years.

		SETH
	Oh yeah?  Six years for me.

		HARRY
	They're great, aren't they?

		SETH
	Yeah, they sure are.  So, are you
	playing the market at all?

		HARRY
	Well I don't know about playing.  I do
	own some blue chips.  They were
	actually wedding gifts from our friends
	in New York.

		SETH
	Well, I'm calling to tell you about an
	explosive situation we have going on
	right now.  A pharmaceutical company,
	Farrow Tech has a drug called Parattin
	in the third stage of FDA approval.

		HARRY
	What does it do?

		SETH
	Good question, Harry.  Good question.
	This is the best part.  It helps
	premature babies develop properly.

		HARRY
	Sound like a great drug.

		SETH
	It is.  Tell me, those Blue Chips you
	own, what have they done for you since
	you got married?

		HARRY
	Not much really.

		SETH
	Well you see, we deal in stocks that
	really move.

		ADAM
	Oh yeah, they really move.

Seth kicks his chair hard enough to send him rolling.

		SETH
	I would love to show you what I mean
	and I can do so on a relatively small
	investment.

		HARRY
	I really can't buy anything right now,
	Seth.  My wife and I are buying a house
	this month and we're saving every last
	penny.

		SETH
	Look, I don't care how much stock you
	pick up.  I just want you to test me
	out.  Harry, I want you to judge me on
	the percentages I show you. Obviously I
	show you thirty or forty percent, no
	matter how big or small your position
	is you're gonna get pretty excited
	about my next idea, right?

		HARRY
	Well yeah.

		SETH
	Of course you would.  You'd be handing
	out my business cards, wouldn't you?

Harry laughs.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	Pick up one hundred shares.  It's the
	absolute firm minimum.  Okay, if I show
	you three or four points on the trade
	it's not going to make you rich.  On
	the same token, if the stock doesn't go
	anywhere you're not out in front of
	your store with a cup in your hand.

		HARRY
		(laughs)
	No, that's true.

		SETH
		(serious)
	Look Harry, the truth is I could sell
	you a lot more than one hundred shares
	and feel completely comfortable about
	the trade, but I'm asking you to start
	small just to prove what I can do for
	you.

		HARRY
	Alright.

		SETH
	Great!  Should I send the confirmation
	to your business or your home?

		HARRY
	Well I just have to talk to my wife
	first.  Then I'll call you right back.

		SETH
	You don't have to do that, Harry.  And
	I going to lunch in five minutes.

		HARRY
	No.  I have to talk to her first.

		SETH
	I have to ask you something here,
	Harry.  You're at work now, aren't you?

		HARRY
	Yes.

		SETH
	Well what do you do, Harry?

		HARRY
	I'm the purchasing manager for a
	gourmet foods company.

		SETH
	Does part of your job involve making
	decisions?

		HARRY
	Well of course.

		SETH
	Alright, well when you make one of
	these decisions do you call your wife
	to ask her what you should do?

		HARRY
		(a little annoyed)
	No, of course not.  But that's a little
	bit...

		SETH
	Different?  How?  It's your money, you
	earned it.  Besides, all you're doing
	is investing it.  I'm not selling crack
	here, Harry.  I  mean she's only going
	to be happy when she sees you've made a
	wise investment for the family.  Just
	think of the flip side.
	When your wife does the shopping does
	she call you from Pathmark to ask you
	if she can use the coupons for Captain
	Crunch?

		HARRY
	Come on, that's not fair.

		SETH
	I'm just trying to make a point here,
	Harry.  We're not talking about a lot
	of money.  Just think what she's going
	to say when you bring her back a big
	fat check because you had the foresight
	to see a good thing coming.

		HARRY
		(long pause)
	Alright, let's try it.

						CUT TO:



EXT. BOILER ROOM - DAY

A large van with tinted windows sits in an adjacent lot.  A
cable runs from the rear of the van to a telephone pole.

						CUT TO:



INT. VAN - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

Agent True sits in the van with headphones on.  The van is
completely decked out in surveillance gears.  True looks
slightly amazed.  He slowly pulls the headphones off.

		TRUE
	This kid is really good.  God, he's
	gonna go down hard.

						   FADE OUT.



INT. BOILER ROOM - NIGHT

Everyone in the firm is present tonight.  They all face the
front of the room, waiting.  Seth sits next to Chris.

		SETH
	So what's the deal here?

		CHRIS
	Michael always addresses the firm when
	there's a new issue coming out.  It's
	always good news.  I heard we might be
	taking a trip south after this meeting.

Seth looks at Chris for further explanation but Michael walks
up to the front of the room and it quickly quiets down.

		MICHAEL
	How's everybody doing?

The room erupts into cheers at this simple question.  Some
yell out Michael's name.  There is a strong energy in the
room.

		MICHAEL (CONT'D)
	Good to hear.  First thing, I wanted to
	congratulate you all on a huge month.
	For any of you not yet convinced, these
	were the top dogs for the month: Jim
	Young -- $280,000.  Chris Varick -
	$205,000.  Greg Feinstein - $190,000.

The room again breaks into cheers.  Greg and Chris gets pats
on the shoulder.  Seth looks at Chris in awe.

		MICHAEL (CONT'D)
	This month is going to be bigger.  It's
	actually going to be the biggest month
	we've ever had.  We've got a new issue
	I want to talk to you about.  It's
	called Med Patent.  They've just
	designed the world's first retractable
	syringe.  This means that doctors and
	nurses will never again have to worry
	about infection from dirty needles.
	This is not going to be an alternative
	in the medical world, it's going to be
	the standard.  We all know we're here
	to make money, but if we can do
	something good like this, then all the
	better.  So I want you all to go out
	and buy yourselves a new car, or a
	house.  Whatever you want.  Go into
	debt.  You will make a million inside
	of six months.

The place goes wild.

		MICHAEL (CONT'D)
	Now, onto matters of recreation.  We're
	taking a class trip tonight so call the
	ladies and tell them not to wait up.

						CUT TO:



EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

Everyone walks out the front doors of JT Marlin to find six
luxury buses waiting in the parking lot.

						   FADE OUT.



INT. HALLWAY - SUITE 418 - NIGHT

Fade up on Seth walking down a hall towards the suite.  He
passes the half open door and sees a prostitute smoking a
cigarette in between "shifts".

		TODD
	Hey Seth, you want some of this?  Just
	get in line, bro.

		SETH
	Nah, that's alright.  I'm gonna go hit
	the tables.

		TODD
		(laughing)
	Fuckin' fag.

		SETH
	That's me.  Can't get enough dick.

						   FADE OUT.



EXT. STREET - MORNING

Seth drives down a rundown street in Red Hook, Brooklyn.  He
gets out of the car by an obviously abandoned building.  He
walks up to a window and wipes off the dust.  It's empty.

He turns to leave when he notices a decrepit sign against the
wall.  He bends down to read the faded name -- MED PATENT.

						   FADE OUT.



EXT. PIER OVERLOOKING MANHATTAN - NIGHT

Seth and Debbie sit staring at the skyline.  Debbie really
feels for him.  We see that here.

		DEBBIE
	What's wrong, baby?

		SETH
		(sighs)
	What's wrong?  Everything, it feels
	like.  Not you, but everything else.

		DEBBIE
	What is it?

		SETH
	Things aren't right at work.  I'm sick
	of opening accounts for Greg.

		DEBBIE
	But you're almost done, baby.

Debbie stares at him deeply.

		DEBBIE (CONT'D)
	There's something else.  It's your
	father.

		SETH
	...Yeah, actually, it is.  We're
	finally getting along.  I mean we're
	having lunch next week on his request.
	Do you know how happy that shit makes
	me?!

		DEBBIE
	I do.

		SETH
	But it's all based on this fucking job.
	This very legitimate respectable job.
	A job he can tell his friends about
	during the Yom Kippur appeal.  And it's
	all bullshit.

		DEBBIE
	Then you'll quit.  You'll tell him what
	was happening and he'll respect you for
	walking away.

		SETH
	I can't do that!  I've invested too
	much time and energy.

Seth takes a deep breath here and stares at Debbie.

		DEBBIE
	Talk to me, Seth.

		SETH
	I figured out how Michael's making his
	money.  I almost wish I hadn't; because
	it's all illegal.

		DEBBIE
	It really is, huh?  Well we knew it was
	shady.  So how's he doing it?

		SETH
	It's called bridge financing.  It's so
	simple.  A group of investors make a
	loan to a private company.  Let's say
	for three million.  After the company
	gets taken public they pay back a
	million in cash and the other two they
	pay back in common stock, but at the
	IPO price.  So the investors basically
	get two million worth of IPO stock.
	Then they can sell it on the open
	market at triple what they bought it
	for.  Now that's actually all legal as
	long as the investors are not tied to
	the brokerage house.  But Michael's
	friends are the investors on every IPO
	we do.

		DEBBIE
	That's why all the names were the same
	on the contracts.

		SETH
	Right.  Then he has us push it all on
	the open market.  We're selling
	Michael's shares.  That's where the two
	dollar rips come in.  He can afford to
	pay us that much.  He's still in an
	obscene profit margin.  It's to his
	advantage to give us those rips.  He
	has to motivate us to push these
	stocks.  He depends on us to literally
	create the market.  It's all artificial
	demand.  There's no other firm selling
	this shit.  That's why he's always
	telling us to go into debt.  He wants
	us hungry.  Then as soon as we sell off
	Michael's position there's no need to
	maintain the inflated price anymore.
	We stop pushing it and it crashes.  And
	get this.  The last IPO, Med Patent,
	it's cardboard.  No research and
	development, no employees, not even a
	fucking building.  Annual reports are
	all bullshit.  Michael manufactures
	them.  Med Patent doesn't exist.

		DEBBIE
	Jesus Christ, Seth.  Now what?

		SETH
	Now?  I don't know.  Maybe now I go do
	it for myself.

						   FADE OUT.



INT. CASINO - NIGHT (LATER)

The casino is barely full.  Seth stands there exhausted,
surveying the scene.  Jeff walks over and hands Seth an
envelope.  They exchange hellos but nothing more.

						CUT TO:



INT. SETH'S ROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

Seth reaches over to the monitor and switches it on.  He
opens the envelope and empties about $5,000 onto the bed.

He looks very upset as he counts out the money finally
throwing it on the bed and then YELLING.

		SETH
	Jeff!  Come on up here!

We see Jeff's head snap up as he stares at Seth through the
monitor.  He leaves the table as another dealer replaces him.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	What's going on?  One week I can
	understand, but this is approaching
	four months, and we're down forty
	percent from the last month I was here
	full time.

		JEFF
	What the fuck do you want from me?  I'm
	not you, Seth.  I'm not going to kill
	myself for half the profit.  You get to
	come in here and just pick up your
	money and it sucks.

		SETH
	What?  It's my business.  I created it,
	remember?  You used to make ten dollars
	an hour.  Now you're pulling in a
	thousand a week.  And you're still not
	happy?  What the fuck is that?  And you
	still haven't answered me as to why
	profits are down this much.  What's
	going on, Jeff?!

		JEFF
	Nothing, you can check the tapes.

		SETH
	For what?  I didn't say anything.  You
	skimming, Jeff?

		JEFF
	No I'm not.  Look, we've been closing
	earlier than usual and we've been
	opening later.  I can't handle the
	twenty-four hour gig anymore, Seth.
	This isn't Denny's.  I'm trying to
	finish school here.

Seth breathes heavy.  This is his real source of income.

		SETH
	Alright look, why don't you take on
	another partner and split your end
	which I'll up to sixty-five percent.
	Then you can work at night and go to
	school during the day.

		JEFF
	I'm already doing that.

		SETH
		(surprised)
	You are?

		JEFF
	Yeah, I took Dave on last month.

		SETH
	And you still can't handle it?

		JEFF
	No.

Seth looks off toward the wall and then...

		SETH
	Fuck!!

						CUT TO:



INT. HARRY & SUSAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Harry is working on dinner.  His two young children, MAX and
SARA, laugh at their father who makes funny faces at them.

Harry turns away and then turns back with two stalks of
asparagus coming out of his mouth like tusks.  He mimics a
walrus for his children who laugh hysterically.

		SARA
	Daddy!  You look ridiculous.

		MAX
	No, it's funny, Dad.  Keep going.

Max eats some asparagus while still smiling at his Dad.

		MAX (CONT'D)
	Hey Dad, my pee smells funny after I
	eat this stuff.

		SARA
	Yeah, mine too!

Harry's wife, SUSAN, walks in with the mail in her hands.
She's 32, both plain and smart looking.  She looks through
the mail while taking her coat off.

		SUSAN
	Okay guys, let's settle down.  You
	really have a knack at stimulating
	great conversation with the kids.

		HARRY
	Yeah, it's a talent huh?  I found out
	that the new medical program includes
	dental.

		SUSAN
	Are you serious?  That's great.  You
	hear this, kids?  You're going to get
	to go to the dentist for free.

Both Sara and Max both grimace at the same time.

		MAX
	Great job, Dad.

Susan sees a piece of mail that catches her eye.

		SUSAN
	Harry, who's JT Marlin?

		HARRY
	Oh yeah, I forgot to tell you.  I
	brought a little bit of stock.

Susan looks up.

		SUSAN
	What did you buy?

		HARRY
	Oh, it's this great pharmaceutical
	company that's poised for a big jump.
	They make this new drug that helps
	premature babies survive their initial
	three months.  Isn't that great?

		SUSAN
	How much did you buy?

		HARRY
	Nothing crazy, Susan.  Just a hundred
	shares.

		SUSAN
	At with price?

		HARRY
	Eight dollars.  Take it easy hon.

Susan relaxes somewhat at this answer.

		SUSAN
	How did you even know who to call?

		HARRY
	Well actually, he called me.

		SUSAN
	Who did?

		HARRY
	Seth Davis.  The broker.  He's a really
	great guy.  Family man actually.

		SUSAN
	How did he get your name?

		HARRY
	I have no idea.

		SETH
	Doesn't that worry you?

		HARRY
	No, not particularly.
		(abruptly)
	Hey look, it's okay!

Susan and the kids all detect this change in tone.

		HARRY (CONT'D)
		(calmly)
	It's a small investment and I'm just
	testing this guy out.  If he doesn't
	show us any gains on this trade then I
	won't do business with him again.

						CUT TO:



INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Seth kneels on the floor rolling dice with some other
brokers.  He turns to see a kid sitting in the waiting room
staring at him just like he did months earlier.

Jim walks in and all of the brokers jump to find seats.  Jim
drops his coat on the desk and starts right up.

		JIM
	This is gonna be a quick one, boys.
	You passed your sevens over a month
	ago, and yet no one has opened the
	necessary forty accounts for their team
	leader yet.  Seth is the only one of
	you that's even close.

Seth looks at his hands.  Doesn't need to stick it to anyone.

		JIM (CONT'D)
	I did it in twenty-six days when I was
	a junior broker.  You're not sending
	out press packets anymore.  None of
	this Debbie the Time Life operator
	shit.  It's time to go to work.  Get on
	the phones and be aggressive.
		(uncovering his coffee)
	I remember this guy once called me to
	sell me some stock.  I let him pitch
	me.  I got every fucking rebuttal out
	of this guy.  Kept him on the phone for
	an hour and a half.  Toward the end I
	started asking him buying questions.
	Like, what's the firm minimum?  That's
	a buying question.  I ask a question
	like that, he should take me down.
	It's not like I asked him what his 800
	number was.  That's a fuck off
	question.  I was giving him a run but
	he blew it.  To a question like, What's
	the firm minimum the answer is zero!
	You don't like the idea, don't pick up
	a single share.  This putz is telling
	me...
		(mocking)
	...ummm, a hundred shares?  Wrong
	answer!  You have to learn how to
	close.  Always be closing!  You have to
	push.  Keep asking questions.  Ask
	rhetorical ones just to get a yes out
	of them.  If you were drowning and I
	threw you a life jacket would you grab
	it?  Yes?  Good.  Pick up two hundred
	shares, I won't let you down.  Ask a
	guy if he'll let you down.
	Ask a guy if he'll be happy to see
	thirty to forty percent return.  What's
	he gonna say?  Fuck you, I don't want
	to see those returns?

Everybody laughs.

		JIM (CONT'D)
	Stop laughing, it's not funny.  If you
	can't close then start thinking about
	another career.  I'm serious.  I am
	dead serious about that.  Have your
	rebuttals ready.  Anybody says call me
	tomorrow, that's bullshit!  Anybody
	says they got money problems about two
	hundred shares is lying.  You know what
	I say to that?  Tell me you don't like
	my idea, tell me you don't like my
	firm, tell me you don't like my fucking
	tie, but don't tell me you can't pull
	twenty five hundred together.  You hear
	me, boys?  There is no such thing as a
	"no sale" call.  A sale is made on
	every call you make.  You either sell
	the client some stock or he sells you a
	reason he can't.  Either way it's a
	sale.  The question is, who's gonna
	close, you or him?  Be relentless!
	Alright, I'm done.

Jim walks out as suddenly as he came in.  Seth ambles out of
the office.  He has many things on his mind.  He sees Chris.

		CHRIS
	How smooth is that motherfucker?

		SETH
	Too smooth.

Seth follows him to the back where he's making a copy.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	So Chris, I've been reading the
	contracts.

		CHRIS
	For the IPO's?
		(laughs)
	I was just kidding.  No one really
	reads them.

		SETH
	Yeah, okay.  Anyway the company we're
	selling now that makes that retractable
	syringe...

		CHRIS
	Med Patent.

		SETH
	Right.  Well, I was reading their
	prospectus and... Well, they don't fill
	the minimum requirements to be taken
	public.

		CHRIS
	Seth, you just started here.  You can't
	possibly know what the fuck you're
	talking about.  You didn't even finish
	college.

		SETH
	Listen to me.  To float a stock , you
	need at least two years worth of
	audited financial statements.  They
	don't have any.

		CHRIS
	Look Seth.  I thought we already went
	through this.  You're a good kid, and I
	like you a lot, but this is bullshit.
	Michael knows all about this stuff.  We
	don't.  He doesn't tell you how to
	trade, so don't tell him how to do his
	business.  He's the reason we make
	bank, and he hasn't steered us wrong,
	ever.

		SETH
	Chris.  I went to the address listed on
	the prospectus. It's an abandoned
	building.

Chris grabs Seth and SHOVES him into a corner.

		CHRIS
	Listen to me, Seth, and listen good.  I
	will back you up against Greg or
	anybody else that fucks with you.  But
	on this I am telling you to shut the
	fuck up.  You will not rock this boat.

Seth looks stunned and Chris realizes he may have gone a bit
overboard.  He tries to reel things back in.

		CHRIS (CONT'D)
	Now how many more accounts do you owe
	Greg?

		SETH
	Three.

		CHRIS
	So you'll be out of Greg's reach in a
	couple of days.  Knock them off and
	you're on your own.  You're gonna make
	a lot of money after that.  A lot of
	money, Seth.  Just don't fuck it up now
	'cause you're pissed at Greg.  Got it?

		SETH
	Yeah Chris.  I got it.

They shake and Chris pulls him into a short, masculine hug.

		CHRIS
	You're a good kid.  Too fucking smart
	though.

						CUT TO:



EXT. BOILER ROOM - DAY (LATER)

It's late afternoon as Seth walks out the front door.  He
heads toward the building he saw Michael and the other guys
go into.

						CUT TO:



INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

The building is brand new and he wonders where to begin when
a JANITOR rounds the corner.

		SETH
	Hey, how you doing?

		JANITOR
	Fine, thanks.

		SETH
	I'm trying to find the space that our
	company just rented.

		JANITOR
	What's the name of the company?  We've
	only rented out a couple of offices.

		SETH
	JT Marlin.

		JAMES
	Nope.  No company by that name.  You
	sure you got the right building?

		SETH
	Yeah.  Michael Brantley told me to come
	by.

		JANITOR
	Michael.  Big guy, maybe thirty years
	old?  Sharp dresser?

		SETH
	Yeah, that's him.

		JANITOR
	Second floor.  Suite 206.  You can go
	up and have a look.

		SETH
	It's not locked.

		JAMES
	Nah.  Just cheap phones in there,
	that's all.

Seth finds the suite and opens the door.  He stops in
amazement.  It's the identical set up of JT Marlin's floor.
The desks are all in and there are close to 400 phones in the
room.  Nothing else.  Suddenly he hears VOICES from around
the corner of the L-shaped room.  He ducks behind a filing
cabinet.  Michael and John Feiner come around the corner.

		MICHAEL
	Now if the heat does come and we have
	to jump, how long will it take to move
	the whole firm?  I mean everything.

		JOHN
	Under two hours, literally.  They'll be
	making calls that afternoon.

						   FADE OUT.



EXT. FEDERAL COURTHOUSE - DAY

Seth bounds up the front steps into the building.



INT. COURTROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

Seth quietly enters the courtroom.  It's almost full.  The
guard instantly recognizes him and they shake hands.

Seth sits down in the back and watches his father sitting up
on the bench.  Marty does not see him.  Seth looks on in
wonder.

						   FADE OUT.



INT. GRAND DELI - DAY (LATER)

Seth and Marty are eating pastrami sandwiches.

		MARTY
	So what do you think of the suit?

		SETH
		(shocked)
	You're asking me?

		MARTY
	Sure.  You've got good taste in
	clothing.

		SETH
	Actually I like it a lot.  I noticed it
	earlier.  Real departure for you
	though.

		MARTY
	Not the usual stodgy old judge garb
	huh?

		SETH
	No.  You even nailed the tie.

		MARTY
		(smiles)
	Even?  Are you going to start investing
	my money soon?  I could use a better
	return than Fidelity's getting me.

		SETH
	I don't know if I'm ready for that.
	Too much pressure.  Imagine if I lost
	your retirement fund on some small-cap
	stock.  God, that would be funny.

		MARTY
	Yeah, hysterical.

They both laugh.

		MARTY (CONT'D)
	So what kind of stocks are you trading
	these days?

		SETH
		(answers carefully)
	Mostly tech and pharmaceuticals.

		MARTY
	You got any tips for me?

		SETH
	Dad.  I didn't know you had it in you.

		MARTY
	What?  I never said I didn't like to
	make money.  It's the method I've
	always been concerned about.

Marty looks at his son, smiling.

		MARTY (CONT'D)
	See Seth, we're having lunch here like
	real people.  I told you we could get
	to this.

		SETH
		(somber)
	You did.

						   FADE OUT.



INT. BOILER ROOM - DAY

Debbie is answering incoming calls.  She answers one call
after another until one call makes her FREEZE.

		DEBBIE
	JT Marlin, how may I direct your call?

		TRUE
	I think I'll just talk to you.

		DEBBIE
		(extremely nervous)
	Why are you calling me here?  I told
	you I would talk to you as soon as I
	knew.

		TRUE
	Time's running out, Deb.  I need to
	know what he's doing.  Serve him up.

		DEBBIE
	He hasn't done anything wrong.  There'
	nothing I can tell you.  Why don't you
	go after Feinstein or one of the other
	guys?  Seth's a good kid.

		TRUE
	We want to nail those other guys.
	We're not interested in putting Seth
	away.  So if you care about him so much
	then you better find something on him.
	Your immunity deal won't be on the
	table forever.
	I'm just thinking about your mother
	that's all.  One of us has to.

True hangs up.  Debbie's badly shaken.

						CUT TO:



INT. HARRY & SUSAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Harry sits in the living room looking at the Wall Street
Journal.  He's nervous.  He keeps looking toward the door
like an adolescent with a porn magazine.

						CUT TO:



INT. BOILER ROOM - MORNING

Seth is on the phone closing his 40th and final account as a
junior broker.  We are very TIGHT ON Seth.

		SETH
	The only problem you're going to have
	is that I didn't come down there an
	twist your arm to buy a thousand
	shares.  You simply have no idea what
	you've tapped into here today.  That's
	right.  My secretary will take all your
	information.  I have to hop.  Bye.

Seth pushes the hold button and we pull out to see that the
whole table was listening in.  Chris looks proud.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	Make it so, Sheryl.
		(then yelling)
	Yes!  Finally!  My first whale and my
	first account.  My book baby!

Greg calls out from the head of the table.

		GREG
	Hey Seth, hate to bust in on your
	little victory speech, but that's your
	fortieth account.

		SETH
	Right.  So it's mine.  I'm out of the
	junior broker program.  I don't work
	for you No Mo'!

		GREG
	Well you're out, but that account's
	mine.

		SETH
	Fuck that.  I keep the fortieth.

		GREG
	No you don't.

Seth looks around to see everyone going back to their seats.

		SETH
	Is this about Debbie?  Are you that
	bitter?  I have made you a lot of money
	over the last three months, more than
	any other trainee.

		GREG
	Sorry Seth.  I couldn't do it if I
	wanted to.  It's the rules.

		CHRIS
	Hey, come on, Greg.  You can bend the
	rules.  I gave my guys...

		GREG
	Get the fuck out of here, Chris.

Greg gets up and walks toward Seth.

		CHRIS
	Not yourself these days, man.  Not
	yourself.

		SETH
	Fuck you, Greg.

Greg moves very quickly toward Seth who doesn't react quick
enough.  Greg SHOVES him hard enough to send him sprawling.

		GREG
	You're on my team, I'm not on yours.
	Try to remember that bitch.

						CUT TO:



EXT. PROSPECT PARK - DAY

Seth is waiting near a fountain.  He looks around nervously.

A black man approaches, pushing a baby carriage. He is
dressed in hip-hop styled clothing.  Seth looks at the man as
he passes and then turns to catch a glimpse of the baby.
Instead, he sees a huge boom-box in the carriage.

Marty emerges behind him.  He looks irate.

		SETH
	Dad?

		MARTY
		(icy, controlled)
	I spoke to Howard Goldberg over at
	Prudential.  You lied again you
	unbelievable piece... You lied to all
	of us.  He told me all about JT Marlin.
	A chop shop.  You've been selling their
	shit all this time.  How many people
	have you fucked over so far, Seth?
	Huh?  How many?

Seth does not answer.

		MARTY (CONT'D)
	All that bullshit about them wanting to
	know you how the business works.  The
	great training program.  Profits you've
	heard for your customers!  Did you make
	them anything?  Just tell me, did you
	make them any money?

		SETH
	No.  Not a penny.

		MARTY
	I'm done with you, Seth.  This is it.
	You're out of our lives.  I don't want
	to see you again.  Don't come by the
	house, don't call.  This is worse than
	the casino.  You've been stealing here.

		SETH
	I was gonna tell you, Dad.  I was just
	waiting for the right time.

Marty turns and walks away.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	Dad!

						CUT TO:



INT. HARRY & SUSAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

They're fighting.  Max and Sara are sitting on the floor in
the hallway outside their bedroom.  They're scared.

		HARRY
	You think I want to live in this
	apartment the rest of my life?!

		SUSAN
	Sometimes I wonder.

		HARRY
	Oh please!  I'm the one who got the
	raise, Susan, try and remember that.
	I'm the one that goes out every day and
	supports this family.

		SUSAN
	You can't keep using that shit, Harry.
	I've told you a million times I have no
	problem going out and getting a job to
	help pitch in, but you forbid it.  Then
	you go and use it against me.

		HARRY
	Look Susan, we're going to buy the
	house.  I promise.  We will get the
	house.  Just get off my back!

						CUT TO:



INT. FBI ECONOMIC CRIMES UNIT - DAY

Agent True is in the director's office once again.

		DIRECTOR
	Listen to me.  I want him brought in
	here.  You've already got a strong
	case.  He'll turn states.

		TRUE
	What do we have on him?  Manipulative
	trading tactics?  What can we threaten
	him with, license revocation?  He'll
	never go for it.  We need more.  I know
	he's up to something. I can feel it.

		DIRECTOR
	I can't afford to leave him out there
	any longer.  This girlfriend of his may
	have already tipped him off.  He could
	run at any time.

		TRUE
	She hasn't, sir.

		DIRECTOR
	How could you possibly know that?  And
	if you're right, and she's so loyal to
	you, then why hasn't she given us any
	information yet?  I want Davis brought
	in by the end of the week.  Period.

		TRUE
	Fine.

True storms out of the office.

						CUT TO:



INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Debbie is sitting in a reception area filling out a job
application for a temp agency.  A woman is sitting  next to
her.  Debbie look completely morose.

		WOMAN
	How many words can you type a minute?

						CUT TO:



INT. COURTHOUSE - DAY (SAME TIME)

The guard Seth knows unlocks a judge's chambers for him.

Seth goes into the private chamber and puts his bag down on
the leather sofa.  Huge bookcases, mahogany desk.  Judge
stuff.

Seth looks at a photo resting on the desk.  It's a picture of
Seth on the Mongoose.  His father is standing next to him
smiling broadly.  It's the day his father bought him the
bike.

Seth looks as emotional as we have ever seen him.  Marty
comes in through another door, startled to see Seth there.

		MARTY
	What are you doing here?  I thought I
	told you I didn't want to see you
	again.

		SETH
	I need to talk to you.

		MARTY
	Get out.

		SETH
	Dad, I really need to talk.

		MARTY
	What is it?!

		SETH
	I want out of the firm.

		MARTY
	Great.  So leave.  I don't really care
	what you do anymore.  But your coming
	here is unacceptable.  You want to cost
	me my judgeship?  I can't have any
	connection to you.

		SETH
	You know how you asked me to invest for
	you?  Well I've got something.  It's a
	sure thing.

		MARTY
	You've got to be kidding me, Seth.  Get
	out.

		SETH
	I'm talking about making you half a
	million on the next new issue.  And
	it's safe.

		MARTY
	Seth, listen.

		SETH
	I play you off as a whale by having you
	go in on a couple of big trades that JT
	Marlin tells you to invest in.  You
	know, prove your loyalty.  Figure
	you'll drop $50,000.

		MARTY
	Are you fucking nuts?

		SETH
	Just listen to me.  After you drop the
	fifty they'll have faith in you as a
	customer.  When the next IPO comes out
	you'll get a huge chunk for being so
	loyal.  Then instead of holding onto it
	until Michael can sell off all of the
	common stock, you dump it the same day.
	We'll make a fortune and the stock will
	immediately collapse.  That should
	raise enough red flags for the SEC to
	come in and close shop within a week.
	We walk rich and JT goes down.

		MARTY
	I can't believe we're having this
	conversation.

		SETH
	This is the way I want to get out.

		MARTY
	Tough shit, Seth!  You better walk
	right now before you're the one the SEC
	comes after.

		SETH
	But this way I can leave and give them
	a taste of their own medicine.

Marty is just staring at his son.  He looks dumbstruck.

		MARTY
	I don't understand you.  I really
	don't.  You think I'm going to help you
	commit a crime?

		SETH
	A crime?  You don't like these people
	any more than I do.  The whole firm is
	crooked.  We're serving justice.  And
	who are we committing a crime against?

		MARTY
	This is bullshit rhetoric.  What's this
	all about?  Do I have to play on your
	terms?  An act of faith?  Is that it?

		SETH
	I just wanted to do this with someone I
	trusted, that's all.  I'm getting out
	like you told me to.

		MARTY
	I can't do it, Seth.  It's illegal!

Seth gets up, walks to the desk and picks up the phot.

		SETH
	You remember this day?

		MARTY
	Of course.  I bought you that bike.

		SETH
	Do you remember what happened about a
	month after this?

		MARTY
	What do you want from me, Seth?

		SETH
	Do you remember when I broke my leg?

		MARTY
		(snaps)
	Of course I remember!  You were
	hysterical. I had to get you to stop.

		SETH
	Hysterical?  You mean like you are
	right now?  I wasn't even crying, Dad.

		MARTY
	Get out of here.

		SETH
	Sorry I couldn't get the job you wanted
	me to have.  But you know what, who
	gives a shit?  I'm good at what I do.
	The casino was a business!!  A
	legitimate business! And I ran it
	pretty fucking well, Dad.  To think I
	closed it for you.

		MARTY
		(shocked)
	You closed it?

		SETH
	Then I went after this job because I
	thought it was what you wanted me to be
	doing.  I didn't know they were a
	fucking chop-shop when I went there.
		(laughs sadly)
	It's like I can't get away from it.
	But I tried to make the changes you
	told me to.  I did everything you said.
	I'm leaving JT now.  I'm just asking
	you to do this one thing with me.  Just
	this one last thing.

Marty really considers him, perhaps for the first time.

		MARTY
	I'm sorry, Seth.  I can't do it.

		SETH
	Fine, I'll find someone else.

Seth gets up and walks out.

						CUT TO:



INT. DEBBIE'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Seth is in Debbie's living room with her.  They are
whispering.

		DEBBIE
	What are you gonna do now?

		SETH
	I'm still gonna do it.  I have this
	friend who may go in with me.  Till
	then I'm gonna make as much money as I
	can at the firm.  I don't care who gets
	fucked anymore.  My father can go to
	hell!

		DEBBIE
	Seth please, my mom.

		SETH
	Sorry.

		DEBBIE
	I don't think this is a good idea.  Why
	don't you just quit?

		SETH
	No.  I told you.  I've invested too
	much time.  And I have no fucking money
	coming in anymore because Jeff tanked
	my gold mine.  I need this.

		DEBBIE
	How about finding a position at a real
	brokerage house?  You're a great broker
	now.  I'm sure you could easily get a
	job.

		SETH
	Doing what?  Ticket running?  Coming
	from JT Marlin you think they're going
	to let me trade for them?  There's no
	way.

Seth looks up at the ceiling.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	Why are you so against this anyway?
	What do you care if I pull this off?
	It'll be great for both of us.

		DEBBIE
	I just have a bad feeling about it.

		SETH
	You know what, I gotta go.

		DEBBIE
	Where are you going?  Seth, wait.  I
	need to talk to...

		SETH
		(dazed)
	I have to go figure this all out.

Seth gets up and leaves.

		DEBBIE
	Seth.

He walks out.  Debbie pauses at the door, wanting to run
after him, to TELL HIM!  She cries.  Her mother's call makes
the decision for her.  She locks up and walks toward her
mother.

There's a KNOCK back at the door and she runs toward it.

		DEBBIE (CONT'D)
		(while unlocking)
	Baby, I'm so sorry.  I need to tell you
	something I've been keeping in for...

She opens the door to Agent True and literally JUMPS from
fear.

True walks in without being invited.

		TRUE
	Why don't you do that.  Why don't you
	tell me something.

		DEBBIE
		(almost hysterical)
	Be quiet, my mother's finally sleeping.

They walk to the living room.

		TRUE
	What's he doing?

		DEBBIE
	Nothing.  He's doing nothing.  But I
	found out how Michael operates the
	whole thing.  Let me give you that.

		TRUE
	Honestly, you're a shitty witness.
	Black secretaries are not as credible
	as white stock brokers.  It's a fucked
	up legal system.  We need Seth to
	testify, not you.  Now what the fuck is
	he up to?

		DEBBIE
	He hasn't said a word to me.

True stares at her hard when...

		TRUE
	You're a smart girl, Debbie.  Why are
	you doing this to me?

		DEBBIE
	What?

		TRUE
	Normally, we could play this game for a
	bit, but this is just such a bad time
	to fuck with me!

		DEBBIE
	What do you want me to tell you?

		TRUE
	You want me to go wake Mom? Maybe if we
	all sit down and talk about things we
	can figure out a way to have someone
	come and give her her medication while
	you're upstate.

		DEBBIE
	Fuck you.

		TRUE
	Give him up!!

Debbie finally loses it.  She begins to sob.

		DEBBIE
	Alright.

		TRUE
	Go ahead!  What's he doing?

		MOTHER (O.S.)
	Debbie, are you okay?

		TRUE
	Are you?

		DEBBIE
	He's going in with a friend on an IPO
	scam this week.  It's on the new issue.
	I better get immunity you piece of
	shit.

		TRUE
	Keep talking to me like that.  That's
	your best bet.

						CUT TO:



EXT. HARRY & SUSAN'S APARTMENT - DAY

Harry is outside raking leaves when he hears the phone ring.
Susan looks up at him because he seems so jumpy.

		SUSAN
	I'll get it.

		HARRY
	No!
		(calmer)
	I mean, I'll get it.

Susan looks at him nervously as he runs into the house.

						CUT TO:



INT. BOILER ROOM - DAY (SAME TIME)

The firm is going nuts.  An IPO from last week, Farrow Tech,
just had its rip bumped to $2.  It's a big money day.

		ADAM
	You do not look like you are fucking
	around today.

		SETH
	That is because I am not fucking
	around.  I am making bank today and I
	do not care who the fuck I take it
	from.

						CUT TO:



EXT. HARRY & SUSAN'S APARTMENT - DAY

Harry, out of breath, reaches the phone on the fourth ring.

		HARRY
	Hello?

		SETH
	Hi Harry.

		HARRY
	Seth!  Did you get my calls?

		SETH
	Yes Harry, it's just been crazy here.

		HARRY
	What the hell's happening with Farrow
	Tech, it's dropped five points since I
	bought it.  I wanna sell.

		SETH
	Sell now?  The stock is down!  You
	don't make money in the market buying
	high and selling low, Harry.

		HARRY
	So what's going on?  Tell me why we
	shouldn't just get out now.

		SETH
	Alright, here's the deal.  I told you
	things would happen within sixty days,
	it's only twenty so far, but the
	situation here is explosive and I
	wanted to get you involved.  That's why
	I haven't returned any calls.  I've
	been gathering information all morning.
	So here it is: The stock's down for
	tech reasons.  It's been on the
	restricted list all week.  But it's the
	same company.  As a matter of fact,
	while it was on the restricted list,
	Farrow was doing nothing but signing
	more contracts.  I'm telling you it's
	looking like our next big one here.
	Hold on a second, Harry.

Seth pushes hold.  Jim Young has walked in front of the board
and begins to speak to the firm.

		JIM
	Just got word from Michael.  The rip on
	Farrow Tech is now three dollars.

The place explodes.  Seth gets back on the phone.

		SETH
	Listen to this, Harry.

Seth holds the phone out toward the chaos.

		HARRY
	Jesus Christ, what's going on over
	there?

		SETH
	See what I'm saying?  People know.  The
	place is going nuts.  It's already up a
	point and its just coming off the
	restricted list.  I'm advising all my
	clients to get in on this, and heavy.
	Hold on a second, let me close the door
	to my office.

Seth holds the phone next to the open drawer of his desk, and
then slams it shut.  He then clambers under his desk for some
quiet.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	Alright, now you get the same stock
	that we picked up at eight, only now
	it's at four.  Now, when it was at
	eight I told you it was going to
	twenty, right?

		HARRY
	You did.

		SETH
	Right, and it's still going there,
	probably even higher now.  This doesn't
	change anything except that you're
	going to make more money than you did
	before.  Look Harry, I liked it at
	eight, I love it at four.  It's an
	average down for you.

		HARRY
	What?

		SETH
	Dollar cost averaging.  If you own a
	hundred shares at ten dollars and now
	you buy another one hundred at five,
	that's a F200 shares at $7.50 a share.
	Your cost basis is lower.  Now if I get
	you involved at ten and take you out at
	fifteen, you've made how many points
	Harry?

		HARRY
	Five.

		SETH
	Exactly.  But if I get you involved at
	seven and a half and I take you out at
	fifteen, well that's seven and a half
	points, that's even better.

		HARRY
		(shaky, but turning toward
		 Seth)
	I don't know.

		SETH
	I also have a bullet on it.  A couple
	of days ago Dan Dorfman, on CNBC, put a
	heavy buy recommendation on Farrow
	Tech.  Reason being, he's been in
	contact with the CEO of the company and
	they feel FDA approval will happen in
	the next three or four weeks.
		(gaining speed)
	Listen to me.  Off the record, I just
	called a broker friend of mine at
	another firm and had him pick me up
	fifty thousand shares under my sister-
	in-law's name.  I'm going to put all my
	kids through college with this stock.
	Look, I have a thousand more phone
	calls to make, Harry.  I have to call
	every one of my clients and give them
	this same opportunity.  Remember when
	we first spoke?  I told you that this
	firm only had five or six great ideas a
	year!  Well, Harry, this is one of
	those ideas.

Seth awkwardly reaches up for his glass of water on the desk
spilling it all over himself.  He doesn't make a sound.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	I remember you saying something about
	buying a house, right?

		HARRY
	Yeah.

		SETH
	Well, how'd you like to pay for it
	tomorrow... in cash?

		HARRY
	You're serious.

		SETH
	Serious as cancer.

		HARRY
	All I've got is the fifty thousand from
	our savings.

		SHERYL
	Seth, you've got a call on line three.

		SETH
	That's my secretary.  I gotta go.  I
	have a lot of clients I need to make
	money for today.  What's it gonna be,
	Harry?

						CUT TO:



INT. SETH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Seth is on the phone.

		SETH
	I thought you were coming over tonight?

		DEBBIE
	I can't make it.  I'm not feeling well.

		SETH
	Come over.  I'll take care of you.

		DEBBIE
	No.  I'm going to just stay here.

		SETH
	Alright, then I'll come over there.
	I'll bring you some soup.

		DEBBIE
	No.  Don't.  Mom's not doing too well
	either.

		SETH
	Oh shit.  I'm sorry.

		DEBBIE
	It's stressing me out a bit.  I'll talk
	to you tomorrow.

						CUT TO:



INT. MARTY'S HOUSE - DEN - NIGHT

Marty sits in his den going over the mail. He hears his wife
on the phone with Seth in the next room.

		MOTHER (O.S.)
	I know, Seth.  But you really went too
	far this time.  I thought we were past
	the lying.  Well then when you figured
	it out you should have said something.
	I understand that.  It's trues, he
	definitely hasn't helped any.



INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

Marty stands at the doorway listening to his wife.  She has
her back to him and does not hear him walk up.

		MOTHER
	Of course he's upset.  You guys are
	going to work through it though.  I'm
	sure of it.  He loves you, Seth.  Do
	you know that?  It's important that you
	know that.  Okay.  Bye.

						CUT TO:



INT. BOILER ROOM - MORNING

The pitch is wild again today.  Everybody's on the phone.

		GREG
	We're not fucking around today, guys.
	I'm sure you all know that we're going
	to be getting a lot of heat for what
	Farrow Tech did yesterday, so be smart
	on the phone.  Calm them down.  I don't
	want people dumping their shares.

		SHERYL
	Adam! I got a Mr. Klastow, he's super
	hot.

		ADAM
	Mr. Klastow?

We immediately hear the man screaming through the phone.

		ADAM (CONT'D)
	Right.  I understand.  Right.  I'm
	sorry.  We couldn't foresee this when
	we... Right.  Okay.  I'll do it right
	now.

Adam pulls out a sell ticket and quickly fills it out.  He
then takes it to Greg to be signed.

		GREG
		(enraged)
	What the fuck is this?  You think I'm
	gonna sign a sell ticket for you?  What
	did I just say?

Greg takes the slip and rips it up in front of him.

		GREG (CONT'D)
	Call him back and explain the situation
	to him!
		(to everyone)
	No one's gonna unload today, no one!

Adam goes back to his seat badly shaken.  The whole team
looks on in disbelief.  You can't just rip up a sell ticket.

		SHERYL
	Seth.  Line three.

Seth pushes the blinking light, still dazed.

		SETH
	Seth Davis here.

		MARTY
	Hi Seth, how are you?

He hears his dad's voice and snaps to.

		SETH
	Dad!

		MARTY
	Can I change your mind about doing this
	IPO scheme?

		SETH
	No.  I'm sorry.  I already found
	someone who's going in with me.

		MARTY
	Well then I'm going to help you out
	with it.

		SETH
	You're gonna do it with me?!

		MARTY
	No, I can't do it, Seth, but I want to
	at least make sure you don't get
	caught.  I have someone I know over at
	the Parthenon Group that will talk to
	you about it.  Come over to the house
	tonight.

		SETH
	Thanks, Dad.  I'm so glad you called.

		MARTY
	Yeah.  Bye.

Sheryl's answers another incoming call for Seth.  It's a
fire.

		SHERYL
	Seth, I've got a Harry Reynard on the
	phone.

		SETH
	Pass him on.  Harry, I was going to
	call you today.

		HARRY
		(desperate)
	I want my money back.

		SETH
	Look, I know you're pissed, Harry, they
	had a setback.  But don't worry about
	it, it's become a goal stock.  I plan
	to bring you eight or nine points over
	the course of this year.  People are
	talking about it like it's the next
	Microsoft.

		HARRY
		(almost crying)
	Listen Seth, I'm in a heap of trouble
	here.  I need that money back.  I was
	supposed to use it for a down payment
	on a house for my family.  We're going
	to lose the house now.

		SETH
	Harry, listen, it's going to rebound.

		HARRY
		(screaming)
	Seth!!  I need the money back!!!

		SETH
	I'm sorry.  I can't do that.  I have to
	go.

Seth hangs up the phone.  He looks very disturbed.

		SETH (CONT'D)
	If he calls back, I'm not here.

						CUT TO:



INT. HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

Harry looks to make sure his co-workers did not hear this
exchange.  His supervisor walks in as the phone begins to
RING.

		SUPERVISOR
	Harry, do you have that status report
	ready?

		HARRY
	Yes Michelle.  I'll bring it right
	over.

		SUPERVISOR
	I also wanted to ask you about...

		SHERYL (O.S.)
	JT Marlin.

		HARRY
		(curt)
	I'll talk to you after I finish with
	this call.

Harry turns his head away from her before she can even reply.

		SUSAN
	OOOkay.

		HARRY
	Seth Davis.

		SHERYL
	May I ask who's calling.

		HARRY
	It's Harry Reynard!

		SHERYL
	I'm sorry, Mr. Reynard, but Mr. Davis
	just stepped out for a meeting.

		HARRY
	God...
		(slamming the phone)
	...Damn it!!

He looks around his cubicle, sees the photo of his family on
his desk, and begins to cry.

						   FADE OUT.



INT. RESTAURANT - DAY

Seth is sitting having lunch with Debbie.  He looks very
upset.

		SETH
	Are you gonna talk to me?

		DEBBIE
	I don't know what to tell you, Seth.  I
	mean think about it.  If you pull off
	this IPO deal and I'm associated with
	you, what do you think is gonna happen
	do me?

		SETH
	They won't be able to prove anything.

		DEBBIE
	Who says they have to?  I'm gonna lose
	my job unless I put some distance
	between us now.

The front door opens as Agent True, with three other FBI
agents, walk straight toward Seth's table.  Debbie is facing
the door and sees them immediately.  Her face goes pale.

		SETH
	What's wrong?

They stop at the table.

		TRUE
	Seth Davis, you're under arrest for the
	violation of 26 SEC and NASD
	regulations.

		DEBBIE
		(trying to be genuine)
	What are you doing?  What's this all
	about?  Seth, I'll get you out of this.

		SETH
	Just don't call my father.

		TRUE
	Sit down, Debbie.

Seth hears him call her name.  He looks at her as he's
cuffed.  He looks as scared and hurt as a man can feel
without crying.

						CUT TO:



INT. HARRY & SUSAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Harry stands against a wall, sweating heavily.  He looks
completely disheveled.  His expression is one of
anticipation.

A plate flies across the room, SHATTERING on the wall.  Harry
cringes, sinking into a fetal position on the floor.  He
CRIES.

Susan walks across the floor toward him.  Max & Sara's crying
now permeates the apartment.  She stands over him.

		SUSAN
	How could you be so stupid!?

Max and Sara stand in the doorway watching in tears.

		SUSAN (CONT'D)
	What were you thinking, Harry?  The
	kids, the house, our future!!

		HARRY
		(crying)
	I'm sorry.  I'm so sorry.

Susan leans against the wall, then slinks down next to him
and begins to sob.  Harry reaches over to console her.  She
backhands him hard across the side of his head, sending his
glasses FLYING and him cowering back.  They both cry.

						CUT TO:



INT. FBI ECONOMIC CRIMES UNIT - NIGHT (SAME TIME)

Seth is brought in through the side door and led to a small
interrogation room.  He walks in to see MARTY at a table.

		SETH
		(screaming)
	Why did you bring him in?  He didn't do
	anything!

		MARTY
	What the fuck is going on, Seth?  Did
	you talk to them about me?

		SETH
	What??!!  Of course not.  Why is he
	here!?

		MARTY
	You sure, Seth?

		SETH
	Of course I'm sure.  Not a word.

		MARTY
		(to Agent True)
	That's it.  I'm walking out of here in
	three seconds unless you charge me with
	something.

Agent True reaches over to a tape recorder and pushes play.
It's a recording of Marty's earlier conversation with Seth.

		MARTY (V.O.)
	Can I change your mind about doing this
	IPO scheme?... Then I'm going to help
	you out with it... I want to at least
	make sure you don't get caught.

		MARTY (CONT'D)
	Jesus Christ.

						CUT TO:



INT. HARRY & SUSAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT (LATER)

Harry is sitting on the floor of the living room as his wife
LEAVES with the kids.  He is crying again.

						CUT TO:



INT. HARRY'S GARAGE - NIGHT (LATER)

Harry is in the corner of the garage.  He has a small black
case in front of him.  He opens it to reveal a .9mm handgun.

He loads the gun back and places it back in its case.  He's
wearing his best suit.

						CUT TO:



INT. FBI ECONOMIC CRIMES UNIT - NIGHT

		SETH
	So what do you want from me?

		TRUE
	We want you to testify.

		SETH
	No whit.  What are you offering?

		TRUE
	Full immunity.

		SETH
	What about my father?

		TRUE
	He won't do any time.

		MARTY
	I haven't done anything illegal, Seth.

		SETH
	So what's the deal.

		MARTY
	I lose my judgeship just going along
	for the ride.

		TRUE
	I've got nothing to do with that.

		MARTY
	Sure you do.  You're gonna release that
	tape to the press.  Makes your case so
	much more glamorous with the
	involvement of a Federal judge.

		SETH
	No deal.

		TRUE
	What?

		SETH
	Take my father out the back door right
	now and bring him home.  He has nothing
	to do with this case at all.  If his
	name shows up in one newspaper, I don't
	testify.  And I mean that.  For me,
	it'd be worth going to jail for.

		TRUE
	You're serious?

		SETH
	What do you think?

		TRUE
	I think you're nuts.  You want to do it
	that way?  Fine.  Then no immunity for
	you, pal.  I need one of you to face
	the music.

		MARTY
	Seth, don't be stupid.  He's right.  I
	won't see a day in jail.  They'll get
	you for at least four years.

		SETH
	I don't care.  Go home, Dad.

		TRUE
	Alright, alright, alright.  Before we
	start dealing here, just what are you
	offering?

		SETH
	I'm gonna hand you this case on a
	silver fucking platter.  I know
	everything you don't.  I know how it
	all works.  How Michael makes his
	money, where it goes, and who's getting
	it.  Now what happens tomorrow?

		TRUE
	You go back to work tomorrow like
	nothing happened.  Just for one day.  I
	need your client book and your whole C-
	drive backed up onto floppy.  But don't
	get any stupid inclinations to travel
	abroad.  We know where your father
	lives.  You're going away, kid.

		SETH
	Yeah.  You mentioned that earlier.

		TRUE
	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you little
	fuck.

Agent True walks over to take Seth away.

		MARTY
		(to True)
	Give me a couple of minutes with him,
	would you?

Agent True just nods and walks out.

		SETH
	I'm sorry, Dad.  I am so fucking sorry.
	I didn't mean to do this to you.

		MARTY
	Shhhh.  Let me speak.

Marty takes a deep breath and closes his eyes.

		MARTY (CONT'D)
	When I came up to you behind that car,
	it was the hardest thing I ever had to
	bear.  I just wanted to make your pain
	disappear.  I don't even know how to
	describe the feeling.  But I want you
	to know something.

He begins to cry.  Seth has never seen him cry before.

		MARTY (CONT'D)
	Not a single day of my life has gone by
	where I do not think about that moment,
	where I do not dream I was there for
	one more chance.  If I could take back
	just one thing in my life, Seth, do one
	thing over... I am more sorry than you
	will ever know.

Seth leans across and they embrace tightly.

						   FADE OUT.



INT. BOILER ROOM - DAY

Seth is on the phone though not fired up as usual.  He looks
very nervous and continually checks the time.

		SHERYL
	Seth, line two.

		SETH
	Hello?

		TRUE
	Get going.

Seth hears a click before he can even say okay.  He hang up
the phone, stands up, and addresses the table.

		SETH
	I'm going to lunch, boys.

		TABLE
	See you, Seth.

Seth stops by Chris and drops a note on his desk.  He's on
the phone while he reads the letter.  He stares at Seth
leaving the room.  After a moment of thought, he too begins
to pack.

We follow Seth out to the reception room where Debbie watches
him approach.  Seth looks at her, but says nothing.

		DEBBIE
	Seth?

						CUT TO:



EXT. BOILER ROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

Seth comes out of the building and heads to his car.  As soon
as he begins to cross the lot he notices a man coming toward
him.  It is HARRY.  There are walking right towards one
another.

Harry accidentally drops his briefcase.  The contents spill
onto the floor.  Seth bends over to help.  He nervously looks
around as he helps Harry, waiting for the Feds to show.  Seth
unknowingly picks up the gun case and hands it to Harry.
Harry is very gracious.

		HARRY
	Thank you so much.

		SETH
		(smiling genuinely)
	No problem.

					   CUT TO BLACK.
 



All movie scripts and screenplays on «Screenplays for You» site are intended for fair use only.
        




