





















                        METROPOLIS


                             by

                       Corey Mandell

































FADE IN:

EXT.  MANHATTAN - MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT

Freezing wind shutters through the shadows.  Relentless
darkness.  No sign of life, save for --

The SOUND of determined footsteps.


INT.  HIGH RISE APARTMENT BUILDING - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

The doorman at his post flipping through a magazine, rap
music pounding from his radio.

Glass suddenly shatters as a gloved hand punches through
the window, reaching in, unlocking the front door.

Two men in dark suits blur inside.  The doorman rushes to
stop them, only --

DEX, the taller of the two men, slams the barrel of his
gun into the doorman's throat.

                         DEX
          Life can be an illusion.
                  (low and deadly)
          Sometimes we see what isn't there,
          and sometimes we don't see what is
          there.

The doorman, wide eyed with terror, nods his consent.
Dex removes the gun.

Doorman plants himself in the chair, eyes glued to his
magazine, making it clear he doesn't 'see' the men as they
stroll into --


INT.  ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

Old fashioned steel box struggling its way up the shaft.
Fluorescent yellow light stabbing through the grating.


INT.  HALLWAY - MOMENT LATER

Dex slaps a small plastic strip on an apartment door as
both men turn away, shielding their eyes.

A blinding flash of light as the door is blown apart.


INT.  APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

The men rush inside and straight into --


INT.  BEDROOM

Candles flicker on the dresser.  A syringe on the bedside
table, next to a sleeping figure curled up under the
sheets.

Both men starting to pull guns, but --

                         DEX
          This one's personal.

Dex's partner shrugs, holsters his weapon and steps back
through the doorway, watching as --

Dex spins and fires.

Not the traditional booming gunfire, but rather the
strange sound of electronic hissing as laser-fire rips the
person to shreds.

Dex finally stops firing and moves to the bed to verify
the kill, only on close inspection he sees it's not a
person.

He's just blown the hell out of a MANNEQUIN.

Dex smiles, blows out the candle and heads out of the
room.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  CHURCH - DUSK

A lone PRIEST lights the sacrament candles, the sound of
his breathing reverberating through the empty church.

He suddenly stops, snaps his head around --

A man in a wheelchair stares at him from the doorway.

The man is CHRISTOPH.  Dark robes shroud his shriveled,
decaying body but his eyes still burn with life.

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (raspy voice which
                   labors to be heard)
          May I trouble you with a confession?

Even in the flickering half-light of the candles, the
Priest can see that Christoph is dying.

                         PRIEST
          Never a trouble.

The large statue of Jesus over the alter staring down as
the Priest leads Christoph into --


INT.  CONFESSIONAL BOOTH

Christoph's voice is weak, knowing each word could be the
last.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Forgive me Father, for I have
          coveted.

                         PRIEST
          What have you coveted?

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (anguished whisper)
          Life.

A small smile of compassion escapes across the Priest's
lips.

                         PRIEST
          God gave us all the need for life.
          And when the end begins to near, we
          all crave more time.  No sin.

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (hesitantly)
          But there's what I would do for more
          time.

                         PRIEST
          What would you do --

A sharp hissing sound --

The laser burns through the confessional wall and straight
through the priest's chest.

Face frozen in a listening pose as the body crumples to
death.

Christoph slowly lowers his weapon with a look of genuine
contrition.


EXT.  MANHATTAN - HELL'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

It's the near future and the neighborhood is covered with
graffiti scrawled in machine code and billboards
projecting holographs advertising malt liquor and
pleasure-dipped cigarettes.

A slick-black JET COPTER drops silently from the sky.


INT.  WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Pieces of advanced computer technology lie scattered about
the large work table.  A small kitchen and bedroom in the
back.

Speakers pour in one of Handel's aching melodies.

The music suddenly pierced by the shriek of a giant Bird
of Prey diving across the room.


EXT.  STREET - CONTINUOUS

A tight knot of bodyguards disgorge from the copter.
Tense eyes sweeping the street, they finally give the all-
clear signal.

HALDEN, a charismatic bull of a man, emerges from the
copter.  He moves with the confidence of someone who knows
he can't be touched.


INT.  WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

The sound of Handel's concert mixes with the sound of
claws tearing apart flesh.

TANNER sits in the middle of the room.  He is early
forties, athletic build, and a face that holds too many
memories.

His insomniac-stained eyes studying the Holographic Chess
Board as the knight mounted on the Bird of Prey slaughters
a pawn.

                         DISEMBODIED VOICE (O.S.)
          Visitors.

Tanner snaps his attention to --


INT.  WALL SIZE MONITOR

Halden and his men head toward the warehouse.


INT.  WAREHOUSE

Tanner's eyes harden at the sight of Halden.  A long beat,
then he finally shakes his head in resigned disgust.

                         TANNER
          Permit entry.

The sound of dead bolts automatically sliding open.

MOMENTS LATER

The bodyguards stand motionless in the corner, doing their
best to look like furniture.

Halden moves through the holographic chess board, his eyes
on Tanner.

                         HALDEN
          A legend fell tonight.

His stare now ripping into Tanner.

                         HALDEN
          The unrunnable maze.  Impossible to
          get through.
                  (thick smile)
          Well, some kid just danced it like
          it was some six bit video game.

Tanner doesn't blink.  His voice matter-of-fact.

                         TANNER
          He had keys.

                         HALDEN
          Of course the legend would like to
          think that.  But no one has keys.
                  (fierce)
          Your maze was run.


EXT.  WAREHOUSE - MOMENT LATER

Halden and his men escort Tanner to the waiting copter.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VACANT CITY STREET - THAT NIGHT

Christoph stands naked in the middle of the vacant street,
staring down at himself in reverent awe.

It is as if he's been reborn.  His body no longer
decrepit, but rather pulsing with an almost inhuman
vitality.

He heads down the street, the walk becoming a run, then a
sprint, his head back, mouth open, tasting the wind.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  MANHATTAN SKY-LINE - CONTINUOUS

A jet-copter screams across the night sky, while inside --


INT.  JET-COPTER - CONTINUOUS

Tanner studies the holographic image of the maze projected
in front of him:

A constantly shifting sea of lines swirling furiously in
random directions.

A small BLUE SQUARE rockets into the maze.  Sound of
laughter as the square dodges, feints, spinning it's way
down into --

The center of the maze.  A pattern so intricate it seems
to be a solid wall of light with no way through --

Only the square suddenly shoots up, twisting, somehow
finding the smallest of fissures and blurring through.

The square is gone.  Only the laughter remains.

                         HALDEN
          He had fun ripping your maze, that's
          good.
                  (tight smile)
          Now that it's obsolete for security
          purposes, maybe we can turn it into
          an amusement ride.

Tanner silently snaps off the hologram as the jet-copter
banks sharply for a landing onto --

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - ROOF

A towering black monolith which seems to burst straight up
through the heavens.


INT.  VSI CORPORATE BUILDINGS - CONTINUOUS

Halden leads Tanner down the long hall.

Dex, who has traded his dark "assassin's" suit for a VSI
standard issue gray pin-stripe, stands waiting for them.

He keeps his eyes on Halden, as if Tanner wasn't even
there.

                         DEX
          We just tracked the runner to the
          hotel district.

Halden nods as all three of them head into --


INT.  CONTROL ROOM

Long rows of programming consoles manned by engineers
wearing wireless 'tele-com' headsets.

Dex directs Halden's attention to one of the high-def
monitors lining the walls.  The monitor showing --


INT.  SAVOY HOTEL ROOM

Rock music pounds the room as silver confetti drops from
the ceiling.

A KID, sixteen at most, watches excitedly from the bed as
the two Playmates, Barbie-Doll bodies, slow-dance a
striptease.


INT.  CONTROL ROOM

Dex finally acknowledges Tanner's presence.

                         DEX
          Still going through puberty and he
          shreds your maze.
                  (hard)
          That's gotta hurt.

Tanner remains silent.  Eyes locked on the monitor as
Halden turns to EMMA, VSI's senior security engineer.

                         HALDEN
          Get some internal police there.
          Tell them to run a perimeter.

                         TANNER
          But have them wait for me 'till they
          move in on him.

Halden turns, shooting him a surprised look.  But Tanner
ignores it as he heads for the door.

Dex goes to stop him, but something in Tanner's eyes makes
him think twice about it.

A frozen beat, then Halden snaps a silent command to Dex
to let Tanner go.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  INTERFACE ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Rows and rows of unconscious bodies strapped to interface
seats, the room looks like a warehouse full of people in
comas.

Tanner climbs into an interface seat as a TECHNICIAN
wheels up his medi-cart and starts preparing an IV.

                         TANNER
          Shouldn't be in that long.

The technician shrugs, returns the IV to his cart and
starts hooking Tanner to a bio-monitor.

Dex strides into the room, staring down at Tanner.

                         DEX
          Been a while since you've been
          inside.
                  (off Tanner's
                   silence)
          Going to look up old friends?

Tanner meets Dex's stare.  A deadly exchange.

                         DEX
                  (grins)
          You know she asks about you all the
          time --

Tanner plunges his finger into the CONNECT BOX, his eyes
thrusting back in his head, body going slack.


INT.  THE NET - CONTINUOUS

Cool silent blackness of the void.

Eternal stretch of nothingness.

Then the blink of a light racing toward us.

Colors so intense you can feel their heat.

                         DISEMBODIED VOICE (O.S.)
          Destination?

                         TANNER'S DISEMBODIED VOICE (O.S.)
          Hotel district.

The faintest sounds can be heard.  Almost sounds like
music.

                         DISEMBODIED VOICE (O.S.)
          Security clearance approved.
          Welcome Tanner.  Enjoy your stay.

Dropping down.  Into the lights.  Embraced by the colors.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  NIGHT CITY

It's as if someone took the best parts of the world's
night spots and put them together in one neon-drenched
city.

Only this is the digital world.

Picture-perfect architecture.  No pollution or decay.  And
colors that are just a little bit more vibrant than the
real world.

Music pounds the air as crowds of people roam the streets,
exploring the countless pubs, casinos and night clubs.


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - HOTEL DISTRICT - CONTINUOUS

Tanner heads down a street lined with some of the world's
most famous hotels.

Unlike the partying people all around him, Tanner is all
business, staring straight ahead with laser-like
intensity.


EXT.  THE SAVOY

A group of INTERNAL COPS wearing tele-com's and Night City
Police uniforms, stand huddled in the shadows across from
The Savoy.

The SERGEANT greets Tanner with a curt nod.

                         SERGEANT
          Corp must really want this guy to
          have sent the legend himself.

                         TANNER
          Just didn't want you boys having all
          the fun.

The sergeant gives the signal.  The cops fan out.


INT.  NIGHT CITY - VIRTUAL HOTEL ROOM

The kid's still on the bed, sucking down a beer.  One of
the Playmates leans over, lets him unhook her bra.

He smiles at her overly perfect body.

She bites her lip in staged ecstasy, tracing her fingers
down his chest, pulling at his belt as --

The door burst open.  The cops and Tanner rush inside.

The kid flies off the bed.

A cop tries to grab him, only the kid grabs a chair and
SMASHES it hard into the cop's face, dropping him hard to
the floor --


INT.  VSI CORPORATE BUILDING - INTERFACE ROOM

The cop's real body lies strapped to an interface seat,
twitching as the pain sears through his consciousness --


INT.  NIGHT CITY - HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The other cops ready to charge, but Tanner gets in front
of them, freezing the kid with a look.

                         TANNER
          Look, we're going to trace you.

The confetti still swirling through the room.

                         TANNER
          So be smart about this --

                         KID
          -- You're the big man.  Big fucking
          cop.

He laughs as he makes an imaginary 'gun' with his fingers
and points it at Tanner --

                         KID
          No guns on the system.  That's how
          it's programmed, right?
                  (pulls the 'trigger')
          So what are you going to do, huh big
          cop?  Can't shoot me.

                         TANNER
          Look, I know you didn't run it.  You
          had keys.

Kid shakes his head, full of bravado.

                         KID
          That maze's nothing.  I could run it
          blind on a sixty-meg board.

                         SERGEANT (INTO TELE-COM)
                  (whispers)
          This is a waste of time.  How about
          a little encouragement?


INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Everyone in the room watching the scene playing out in the
hotel.

                         EMMA (INTO TELE-COM)
          Here's something which ought to help
          him talk --

Her fingers race over the console.


INT.  NIGHT CITY - HOTEL ROOM

Tanner still has the kid pinned with his stare.

                         TANNER
          Fine, you ran it.  That's felony
          system fraud.  Gets you thirty
          years.
                  (lets that sink-in)
          Or you tell us where you got the
          keys and we start talking a deal.

Kid's eyes reveal he's thinking this one through, only --

A huge DOBERMAN explodes through the window.

Insane growl, deadly stare, rocketing for the Kid, who
freaks, throwing one of the Virtual Playmates into its
path --

Powerful claws rips through her, flinging her against the
wall.  She lies there shredded, but for some reason, not
bleeding.

Kid throws himself out the window.  Doberman flies after
him, with Tanner just a heartbeat behind.


EXT.  THE SAVOY

The kid races down the crowded street with the Doberman
chasing after him.

                         TANNER (INTO TELE-COM)
                  (yells)
          Lose the God-Damn dog!

A couple crosses the street, getting between the kid and
the dog --


INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Emma slams in the commands --


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STREET

The Doberman about to tear through the couple, but
flickers, then disappears.


INT.  NIGHT CITY - CASINO - CONTINUOUS

Slightly featureless waiters and waitresses deliver
drinks.  On stage, a young Billy Holiday belts out a
soulful blues tune.

The kid tears through the room.


EXT.  CASINO - CONTINUOUS

The cops rush into the casino.  But Tanner stays on the
street, racing around the side of the building.


INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

The casino is now up on the monitor.  Emma's eyes
following the kid.

                         EMMA (INTO TELE-COM)
          Grid eighteen.  Heading for exit
          six.


INT.  NIGHT CITY - CASINO

The cops charge across the casino, but unable to get to
the kid before he bolts out the exit --


EXT.  CASINO - ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

The kid comes flying out into the alley.  There's Tanner,
bearing down on him.

Kid takes off, running as fast as he can, turning the
corner to --


EXT.  THE GATES

The sprawling structure where people enter and exit Night
City.

A crush of excited customers pushing past the HOSTESS who
welcomes them with programmed cheerfulness.

                         HOSTESS
          And don't miss The Tivoli, with
          fireworks every hour on the hour.
                  (smiles)
          And please remember to follow all
          safety rules while --

The kid racing through the crowd with Tanner in hot
pursuit.


INT.  NIGHT CITY - STREET

Sound of rock music bouncing off the buildings.

The kid sprints out of the crowd and up and over a hill.
Tanner follows, finding himself in the midst of --


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - CONCERT

A colored light show screaming down from the heavens.

The huge crowd of people gyrating to the music pounding
from the band on the river-front stage.

Tanner pushes into the frenzy as an USHER quickly steps up
to him.

                         USHER
                  (very politely)
          I'm sorry sir, but there is a
          premium charge for this event --

Tanner pulls his ACCESS CARD from his pocket and runs it
through the thin slot in the usher's torso.  A beat,
before...

                         USHER
          Access approved.  Enjoy the concert,
          Tanner.

The usher steps away as Tanner slices through the crowd,
eyes probing for the kid.

                         TANNER (INTO TELE-COM)
          Where the hell is he?


INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Emma is studying the monitor, trying to find the kid in
the churning sea of humanity --

                         EMMA (INTO TELE-COM)
          I'm working on it.


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - CONCERT

The band finishes the song.  The audience yelling for more
as the light show suddenly snaps off --

Pitch blackness.

A new song.  Even louder.  Audience screaming along as
strobe lights rip through the night.

Tanner trying to focus in the quick bursts of
illumination.

                         EMMA'S VOICE (FROM TELE-COM)
          He's north-east of you.  Heading to
          Crimson street --

Tanner spins, cutting a path through the throng.  Picking
up speed.  But suddenly freezes --

A face.  KATIE.  Effortlessly attractive.  The warmest of
smiles not quite able to hide the sadness.

Her expensively dressed male companion's arm wrapped
tightly around her waist as they watch the concert.

Tanner stares at her.  Doing everything he can to hold it
in.

The lights strobing her face.  Tanner struggles to pull
his eyes away.  Only now she looks over.  Sees him.

They stare at each other for a long tortured beat.

Katie turns to her companion, whispers something, then
hurries over to Tanner.  Only he's no longer there.

Her eyes spinning through the crowd.  Catches a glimpse of
Tanner as he disappears into the darkness.


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STREET - CONTINUOUS

The kid breaks out of the concert crowd.  Races up the
street and over a bridge to --


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - RED LIGHT DISTRICT

Modeled after Amsterdam.  Canal-lined streets brimming
with businesses catering to every and any erotic desire.

Kid comes running off the bridge and suddenly stops.  A
pair of cops charging him.  The kid turns, rushing into --


INT.  DEVIL'S LAIR

Customers browse the ten stories worth of Virtual
Playmates enclosed in small glass cubicles.

The cops push through the crowd, racing after the kid.


EXT.  STREET

Tanner sprints for the fire escape on the side of the
building.


INT.  DEVIL'S LAIR

The kid racing for an exit, but can't find one.  The cops
almost to him, so he bolts straight for a cubicle --

Covering his face, he throws himself through the glass,
flying past the stunned Playmate and out the cubicle's
back door --


INT.  STAIRWAY

The kid charges up the stairs to the top floor and out
onto --


EXT.  ROOF

The kid throws the door shut behind him as --

                         TANNER'S VOICE (O.S.)
          Time to be smart.

Kid spins.  Tanner is right there.

                         TANNER
          Not too late to cut a deal.
                  (coaxing)
          All you've got to do is tell me
          where you got --

The kid backs away from Tanner, but quickly runs out of
roof, teetering on the edge of a ten story drop.

A frozen beat, then the kid looks up at Tanner with a
twisted grin.

                         TANNER
                  (realizing)
          DON'T --

But the kid's already laughing as he lets himself fall
backward into the air.

Tanner dives after him, smashing face-first into the roof,
grabbing the kid's foot before it disappears over the
edge.

He reels the kid back onto the roof, slamming his stare
into him --

                         TANNER
          This isn't one of those virtual
          reality systems you're used to
          playing on!

The kid shrugs, unfazed.

                         TANNER
          This is hyper-reality.  Full
          Immersion.

                         KID
          Big deal --

                         TANNER
          -- If you had come in through the
          gates like you were supposed to,
          you'd know.
                  (intense)
          Full Immersion.  You die on this
          system, your consciousness dies.

The kid stares at Tanner as this sinks in.  But he still
keeps up his tough guy look.

                         KID
          Why the hell do you care?

Tanner wipes the blood from his chin as he rips all traces
of compassion from his face, matching the kid's stare.

                         TANNER
          I don't.  I just need you alive so
          you can tell me where you got the
          keys.

Tanner hurls the kid back into the arms of the waiting
cops.

                         TANNER
          Trace him.

                         COP
          Be my pleasure.

They drag the kid down the stairs, leaving Tanner alone on
the roof, sound of music swirling through the darkness.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

An engineer studying his screen as location grids flash
by.

One of the grids suddenly freezes.

The engineer punches a command into his console, enlarging
the grid to show a cross-section of city streets.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STREET - CONTINUOUS

Tanner heads down the crowded street toward the flashing
lights of the --


EXT.  CONCERT

Tanner stands on the outskirts of the concert, staring
into the area where he had seen Katie.

The strobe lights flashing across his face.

He finally forces himself to turn away from it, heading
alone down the street,

                         WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
                  (calls out)
          Tanner.

Frozen beat.  Katie steps from the shadows.

A long, tortured silence.

                         KATIE
          Least you could do is say hello.

He slowly looks at her.  Working hard to keep it under
control.

                         TANNER
          Hello.

This isn't easy for either of them.

                         KATIE
          What brings you inside?

                         TANNER
          Cleaning up a mess.

                         KATIE
                  (small smile)
          Some things never change, do they?

Sees the dried blood on his chin.  Old reflexes taking
over, she puts a soothing hand on his face.

He stands rigid.  Barely breathing.  Forces himself to
turn away.

                         TANNER
          I've got to get back.

                         KATIE
          Tanner.

Her eyes plead into his.  Takes everything he's got to
remain firm.

                         TANNER
          Sorry.

He heads down the street.  She calls after him --

                         KATIE
          You know I wanted to tell you, but
          they wouldn't let me --

But he's already disappeared into the darkness.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - BLUES BAR - A LITTLE LATER

The crowded joint watching as the late blues legend
'Howling Wolf', lets lose on stage.

Tanner finds a spot at the bar and orders a drink, his
eyes still dark with memories.

The drink arrives.  As Tanner picks it up, a drop of blood
falls from his chin, crimson spot smearing through the
amber liquid.

                         WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
          It's good luck.  Means your real.

Tanner looks next to him at --

GENA, sexy, chatty, sense of longing.  She motions to the
employees.

                         GENA
          The programs don't bleed.

Tanner nods, waits a polite beat, then turns back around,
taking a hit of his drink, but she's still talking to him.

                         GENA
          Where you plugged-in from?

                         TANNER
                  (beat)
          New York.

                         GENA
          I'm South Dakota.

She sips from her drink, eyes still on Tanner.

                         GENA
          That's what you gotta love about
          this place.  Drink whatever you
          want, your real body doesn't gain an
          once.
                  (beat)
          But you wanna know what's a drag?

He drains his drink and motions for a refill.

                         TANNER
          What?

                         GENA
          The weather.


EXT.  THE BAR - CONTINUOUS

Christoph stands outside, watching them through the
window.


INT.  BAR

Gena leans in toward Tanner.

                         GENA
          Always a warm summer night.  Which
          is a shame, because there's nothing
          like making love in the rain.
                  (flirty)
          Don't you agree?

He looks at her, not sure how to respond.  She reads the
silence.

                         GENA
                  (disappointed)
          What's her name?

                         TANNER
          Who?

                         GENA
          The woman you're stuck on.

                         TANNER
                  (quiet)
          There is no --

His tele-com buzzing, then Emma's voice in his ear.

                         EMMA'S VOICE (FROM TELE-COM)
          Nailed the trace.  Kid's in Memphis.

Tanner talks into the tele-com.

                         TANNER (INTO TELE-COM)
          Good, kick him out.

                         EMMA'S VOICE (FROM TELE-COM)
          You sure?  We can handle collection.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Emma is watching Tanner and Gena on a monitor.

                         EMMA (INTO TELE-COM)
          I mean, I don't want to interrupt
          anything --

                         TANNER'S VOICE (FROM TELE-COM)
          -- You're not.  Kick me out.

Emma shrugs, turns to the console.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - BAR

Tanner motions the bartender to refill Gena's drink,
tossing down credit to cover it.

                         TANNER
          Take care.

                         GENA
          Take care?  Where the hell are you
          going --

He flickers, then disappears into --


INT.  THE NET - DARKNESS

The last thing Tanner sees is Gena's insulted face
blurring into the swerve of lights bending into each other
as --

Tanner is pulled out into the blackness of the net.
Eternal silence.  Finally --

A shaft of light slices the darkness.

Eerie green glow, the echoing sound of an electronic
heartbeat.

Struggling to make out images.  A line smearing up and
down.


INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - INTERFACE ROOM

Tanner blinking back to consciousness.  The weaving line
is on the bio-monitor tracking his vitals.

A bored technician unplugs him from the monitor.

                         MEDICAL TECHNICIAN
          Just lay there a few minutes.

But Tanner forces himself to get up.  His chin shows no
sign of the wound received in the digital world.

He looks around groggily at the sea of motionless people
plugged into the system.  Place feels like a morgue.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  NIGHT CITY - BAR - CONTINUOUS

Christoph moves straight for the now-empty seat next to
Gena.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  HOUSE - DAWN

First light streaks peacefully through the windows.

The place is sparsely furnished.  Empty beer kegs are used
as chairs and textbooks lie scattered about.

The stillness is shattered as --

The front door explodes open --

Heavily armored MEMPHIS SWAT TEAM rushing in, along with
Dex and a couple of VSI security guys --

Weapons drawn, everybody's dead serious.

Tanner follows them in, watching as they rip through the
place, kicking in doors, searching everything, until
finally --

                         SWAT TEAM AGENT'S VOICE (O.S.)
                  (from basement)
          Down here!

Everyone rushes down into --


INT.  BASEMENT

The kid lies unconscious on a cot, his fingers stuck in a
connect-box wired to an old laptop computer.

Swat team leader starts to pull the kid up off the cot,
but Dex's hand shoots out, stopping him --

                         DEX
          Bad idea.

Dex whips a mini-cell phone from his pocket.  Swat leader
turns a confused eye to Tanner.

                         TANNER
          Pull him off the system before he's
          ejected and he goes brain dead.

                         DEX (INTO MOBILE PHONE)
          We got him.  Kick him lose.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - HOLDING CELL - CONTINUOUS

The kid is sitting in the middle of a black cube.  He
suddenly flickers, then disappears --

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  MEMPHIS HOUSE - BASEMENT

The kid's body twitches.  Eyes fluttering open.  First
impulse is to run, but as his focus sharpens --

A wall of laser guns trained on his face.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - BAR

Christoph settles into the seat next to Gena.  He orders a
drink, then turns his attention to her.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Might I interest you in a question?

She turns, gives him the once over, then flashes him a
playful smile.

                         GENA
          As long as it's not 'what's your
          sign?'

                         CHRISTOPH
          If you could meet God, what would
          you say to him?

She stares at him.  He's serious.

                         GENA
          That's a strange question.  You a
          strange man?

                         CHRISTOPH
          There you are, sitting next to the
          creator, what do you say?

                         GENA
                  (amazed laugh)
          This is how you pick up women --

                         CHRISTOPH
          -- No.

The intensity in his stare unsettles her.  But something
about it keeps her from moving away.  She looks at him,
shrugging.

                         GENA
          I'd probably say something like
          why'd you let the world get so
          fucked-up?

He nods, eyes aching with compassion.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Your life that bad?

                         GENA
          No, not me, I've been lucky.  But
          I've seen what happens to other
          people --

                         CHRISTOPH
          -- If your life's so good up there
          Gena, what are you doing down here?

She stares at him.

                         GENA
          How'd you know my name?

His drink arrives as he calmly meets her stare.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Do you believe in miracles?

                         GENA
          I'm serious, how did you know my
          name?

He smiles, dangerous charm.

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (toasting)
          To miracles.

She's still staring at him, not exactly sure what to make
of this guy, but intrigued enough to join him in the
toast.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  MANHATTAN SKY - A LITTLE LATER

The storm has finally arrived.  The jet-copter slashing
through the dark rain.


INT.  JET-COPTER

Tanner is holed up in the back with the kid's laptop
computer.  Programs racing down the screen.

He stops on a program, eyes blazing in vindication.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  NIGHT CITY - THE TERRACE - CONTINUOUS

Flawless gothic architecture complete with Gargoyles
growing down from the roof.

The building is dark and seemingly empty save for the
outdoor glass elevator climbing up its side.


INT.  OUTDOOR GLASS ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

Gena and Christoph stand next to each other in the
elevator, staring down through the window at the fireworks
raining over --


EXT.  THE TIVOLI

Night City's digital carnival.

A roller coaster with no track, cars rocketing through
thin air over a merry-go-around with real horses.

The carnival is surrounded by The Track, where people race
Ferrari's at full speed.

One of the cars loses control, hurtling toward the wall,
but freezes at the last second to allow the driver to
climb out
unhurt --


INT.  OUTDOOR GLASS ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

Gena turns, catching the flicker of almost child-like awe
in Christoph's eyes as he looks out over Night City.

She smiles, moving a little closer to him.  The elevator
glides to a stop.  He looks at her.

                         CHRISTOPH
          You were right.

                         GENA
                  (beat)
          About what?

The doors open and he leads her out onto --


EXT.  THE TERRACE - ROOF

A brass bed surrounded by unlit candles sits in the midst
of the elegantly designed roof garden.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Making love in the rain.

She looks from the bed to him, confused.

                         GENA
          But it doesn't rain here --

The first raindrops beginning to fall as --

Sultry jazz music envelopes them.  The candle wicks
crackle to life, flames dancing in the night.

Gena's stunned, shaking her head, insisting.

                         GENA
          It can't rain here.  Not the way
          it's programmed.

Her eyes dart out over the roof.  It's not raining
anywhere else.  Just here on the roof.  Just on them.

She stares at him, fascination mixed with fear.

                         GENA
          Who are you?!

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (quietly)
          Someone who believes in miracles.

He pulls her to him, warm rain caressing their bodies.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTINUOUS

The jet-copter twists down through the rain for a landing.


INT.  HALDEN'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Halden's office is on the top floor of the building,
windows offering up God's eye view of the storm battered
Manhattan.

Tanner marches in and before Halden can react, slams a
mini-disk into the wall player.

A matrix of data swirls down the wall monitor.

                         TANNER
          Recognize it?

Halden's silent.  Tanner's stare digging into him.

                         TANNER
          Kid had keys.
                  (matter-of-fact)
          The maze is unrunnable.

Halden is still silent, a sour eye on the monitor.

                         HALDEN
          Doesn't make sense.  How the hell
          does some fucking teenager get to
          the keys?

                         TANNER
          Sorry, I just design the maze.
                  (tight smile)
          Keeping the keys secure is your job.

He turns for the door as the monitor buzzes, now
showing --


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The kid sits like a statue in his chair.  He doesn't look
up as the VSI LAWYER enters and takes a seat across from
him.

The lawyer stares at the kid as if this could somehow make
him break down and confess.  Finally...

                         LAWYER
          Care to tell us how you came into
          possession of an illegal access
          program?

                         KID
          Look, I'm doing mute 'till I have a
          mouthpiece here who's on my side.

                         LAWYER
          You don't need a lawyer.
                  (holds up the disk)
          We found the program on your laptop.


INT.  HALDEN'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Tanner has stopped in the doorway, his eyes on the
monitor --


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM

The kid stares impassively at the lawyer.

                         KID
          Don't know what you're talking
          about.

                         LAWYER
          Of course you do.
                  (dead serious)
          And the only shot you've got of
          keeping your ass from sinking in a
          sea of shit is to tell me where you
          got this program.

The kid shakes his head, laughing.

                         LAWYER
          What's so funny?

                         KID
          This.  No point to it.

                         LAWYER
          Why not?

                         KID
          Because you'll never believe me.

                         LAWYER
          Try me.

The kid slowly stops laughing, his voice seemingly
genuine.

                         KID
          It was just there.

                         LAWYER
          There?

                         KID
          My uni-net account.  I log on.  The
          program's there.

                         LAWYER
          Just like that?

                         KID
          Just like that --


INT.  HALDEN'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Halden is still watching at the monitor, not noticing as
Tanner turns and silently slips out into --


INT.  HALLWAY

The voices playing from the monitor are just barely
audible as Tanner heads down the long hallway.

                         LAWYER'S VOICE (O.S.)
          Any idea how the program got there?

                         KID'S VOICE (O.S.)
          How the hell do I know?  Maybe it
          was a gift from God?

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  NIGHT CITY - THE TERRACE - ROOF

Rain streaming down on Christoph and Gena as they have
sex.

She studies him.  His eyes are burning with intensity,
savoring each and every sensation.

                         GENA
          You don't have much sex up there in
          the real world, do you?

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (barely audible)
          No...

Hard to tell if it's rain or tears which streak down his
face.


EXT.  VSI BUILDING - ROOF - CONTINUOUS

Tanner moves through the dark rain and into the waiting --


INT.  JET-COPTER

Tanner climbs in, practically having to yell to be heard
over the storm.

                         TANNER
          Ninth and Hudson.

The PILOT punches it up on the nav-board.  The location
popping-up on the grid.

                         PILOT
          Hell's Kitchen.  Talk about your
          shit holes.  What's there?

                         TANNER
          My home.

Takes the pilot a full beat to realize Tanner isn't
joking.

                         PILOT
                  (trying to cover)
          Cheap rents.  Close to the
          waterfront.  I hear the area's
          making a comeback.

He quickly turns his attention to engaging the thrusters.

Tanner stares straight ahead, watching the rain slam into
the windshield.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  NIGHT CITY - THE TERRACE - ROOF

It has stopped raining.  Gena lies asleep on the bed.  She
is alone.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  JET-COPTER

Thrusters groaning to life.  High-pitched whine, almost
sounding like laughter.

Tanner is watching the blasts of rain battering the
windows.

The jet-copter twisting up into the sky.

A rain drop zig-zags across the windshield, running into
another droplet, making one single, bigger drop racing
down the glass.

Tanner staring at the windshield.  Suddenly realizing --

                         TANNER
          Land it.

                         PILOT
          Sir?

                         TANNER
          Take me back down.

Pilot shrugs, floats the copter back down to the roof.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Tanner rushes through the control room to Emma.

                         TANNER
          I need playback on the kid's run.

She reads the urgency in his voice and pulls it up --


INT.  ON THE HIGH-DEF MONITOR

A holographic image of the maze.  The glowing blue square
racing through it, accompanied by the unmistakable sound
of laughter.

                         TANNER'S VOICE (O.S.)
          Freeze it.
                  (she does)
          Now pull-up play-back of the kid's
          interrogation.

A beat.  The maze replaced by VSI'S interrogation room.

                         KID (ON MONITOR)
          Don't know what you're talking
          about.

                         LAWYER (ON MONITOR)
          Of course you do.  And the only shot
          you've got of keeping your ass from
          sinking in a sea of shit is to tell
          me where you got this program.

The kid starts laughing.

                         TANNER'S VOICE (O.S.)
          Freeze it --

The lawyer and the kid suddenly motionless.


INT.  CONTROL ROOM

Tanner staring at the kid's frozen image on the monitor.

                         TANNER
          Can you isolate and voice-print the
          last sixty audio-bits of both play-
          backs?

Emma punches in the command.

The sound of the kid's laughing, playing alongside the
sound of laughter from the maze run.

Tanner staring at the voice prints on the audio-board.

                         TANNER
          Better get Halden down here.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - STREET

Christoph hurries down the street, the sound of nearby
partying echoing all around him.

He turns the corner, finding himself in a --


EXT.  DEAD-END ALLEY

A holographic map of Night City shimmers in front of him.

                         DISEMBODIED FRIENDLY VOICE (O.S.)
          You are here.
                  (a red X glows on
                   the map)
          To reach the club district simply
          turn around and head east on Crimson
          Street.
                  (dotted lines show
                   the path)
          To reach the Mardi Gras, simply --

Christoph reaches through the holograph, sliding an access
card into an all but invisible slot in the wall.

The map disappears as the wall slides open.  Christoph
heads through the opening --


INT.  PITCH DARKNESS

Christoph's voice echoing through the blackness.

                         CHRISTOPH'S VOICE (O.S.)
          Lights.

The lights snap on, revealing Christoph standing at the
entrance of a long utility tunnel which snakes down under
the ground.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Halden, Dex, and Tanner watch as Emma plays back the maze
run.

                         TANNER
          That's the runner's laugh.

Emma plays back the kid's interrogation.  The kid
laughing.

                         TANNER
          That's the kid's laugh.
                  (beat)
          We ran voice-print.  It's not the
          same person.

Everyone stares at him.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - TUNNEL

Christoph sprints through the tunnel.  It winds around
into --


INT.  DIGITAL EMPLOYEE STORAGE CENTER

A large room full of reserve employees.

Motionless waiters, bartenders, playmates and bellhops
stacked along long racks, staring out into space with
empty eyes.

Christoph races through the room to the stairs in the
back.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Halden still staring at Tanner, realizing --

                         HALDEN
          Two maze runners.

                         TANNER
                  (nods)
          Someone sends the kid a copy of the
          access program, then runs the maze
          at the same time the kid does, using
          the same codes.

                         EMMA
          Why?

                         TANNER
          Because that way, the system only
          registers a single runner.
                  (beat)
          We go after the kid, leaving the
          other person free and clear to do
          whatever the hell they want.

A long terrified beat for this to sink in.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STAIRS

Christoph rushes down the stairs and into --


INT.  HALLWAY

A pair of GUARDS stand sentry in front of a large door.

                         GUARD
          Need to see your work orders, sir --

Christoph nods, slamming his fist into the guard's wind-
pipe with deadly force, then spins, snapping the second
guard's neck.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE BUILDING - INTERFACE ROOM

The guard's flesh and blood bodies twitching, then fall
still as the bio-monitors tracking their brain activity
FLATLINES.

An ALARM pounding the room.

Medical technicians rush to the bodies.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

A warning light erupting on a console.  A stunned engineer
staring at his screen.

                         ENGINEER
                  (calls out)
          Two Internals down right outside the
          Nexus.

The room spins silent.  Everyone staring at the monitor
which shows the two guards laying dead on the floor.

Halden snaps at Emma.

                         HALDEN
          Pull up the Nexus --

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Christoph punches numbers into the door's keypad.  A
buzzing, then the door opens for him.

He pulls a HOODED MASK from his pocket, throwing it over
his head as he rushes inside --


INT.  THE NEXUS CENTER

A large room dominated by a web of catwalks providing
access to the several stories worth of program panels
lining the walls.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Everyone staring at the monitor as the hooded intruder
races down a catwalk and opens a program panel.

Inside is a program keyboard and screen.  The intruder
begins typing on the keyboard.

                         EMMA
                  (stunned)
          Jesus Christ, he's interfacing.

Tanner spins to Halden.

                         TANNER
          Eject the system!

                         DEX
                  (jumps in)
          Are you crazy?!

                         TANNER
          You don't have a choice, he's
          interfacing with a core program --

                         DEX
          -- Trying to interface.

Halden nods, siding with Dex.

                         HALDEN
          He won't get through the security
          codes.

                         DEX
                  (to Emma)
          Get every cop who's in the area.
          Tell them to rip this fucker out of
          there.

                         TANNER
          Won't be time if he gets access --

                         HALDEN
          -- He won't.

His tone clearly indicating end of discussion.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - NEXUS CENTER

Christoph, still wearing the hooded mask, whistles the
Lord's Hymn as his fingers dance across the keyboard.

                         EMMA'S VOICE (O.S.)
          Internal Police in position --

                         HALDEN'S VOICE (O.S.)
          -- Send 'em in!

Several dozen Internal Cops rush in through the door --

Christoph's up above them on a catwalk --

The cops sprinting up the stairs after him --

Christoph typing as fast as he can, furiously trying to
break through the security codes --

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTINUOUS

Everyone's eyes glued to the monitors.  Watching the cops
split into two groups.

Christoph's in the middle of a catwalk.

Cops charge him from either direction.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - NEXUS CENTER - CONTINUOUS

Christoph's fingers blurring over the keyboard --

The cops getting closer and closer --

Christoph typing as fast as he can --

The cops are just heartbeats away --

Nothing Christoph can do --

Suddenly stops typing --

Smallest flicker of a smile.

Spins to face one of the charging groups of cops.

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (genuinely)
          I'm sorry.

LASER CANNON materializing in Christoph's hands --

The cop's face frozen in stunned terror.

Laser cannon erupts --

Blasts through the cops --

Sharp screams of pain as bodies drop --

Christoph spins.  Fires on the other group --

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - INTERFACE ROOM

The internal cops' real bodies lined up in their interface
seats.

One by one, down the line, twitching, like some grotesque
Rockettes show.  Screen monitoring brain activity
flatlining --

ALARMS pounding the room.

Medical technicians rushing to bodies.  But nothing can be
done.

The cops suffering full cerebellum arrest.  Instant brain
death.


INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTINUOUS

Everyone watching the massacre in stunned horror.  Tanner
the first to react, yelling at the engineer --

                         TANNER
          Eject the System!

Engineer turns to Halden.

                         HALDEN
          Do it!

Engineer reaches for his command console.

Dex spins, flash of steel, laser hissing --

Burns a neat hole in the back of the engineer's head,
dropping him dead.

Halden whips around, staring at Dex, shocked.

The control room's security force pulling lasers on Dex,
but he ignores them as he fires into the eject console --

Sparks fly as metal disintegrates.  Twisted remains of
circuitry.

Security guards open up fire, lasers carving up Dex's
body --

Dex dies, face frozen in a jeering smile.


INT.  NIGHT CITY - NEXUS CENTER

Silence.  None of the cops alive to scream.

Christoph's surrounded by twisted bodies, blood pooling at
his feet.

His eyes burning in genuine anguish.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Tanner spins to an engineer, motioning to Christoph's
image on the monitor.

                         TANNER
          Run a trace.

Engineer nods, begins the trace.

Tanner stares down at Dex's corpse, then up at Halden --

                         TANNER
                  (realizing)
          He had access to the keys --

                         HALDEN
          -- Yes.

Halden moves away, that's all he's going to say.

The engineer looks up at Tanner, shaking his head.

                         ENGINEER
          Guy's got one hell of a relay going.

He motions to the multiple grids popping-up on the screen.
Each grid showing a different location from around the
world.

                         ENGINEER
          We're going to have to search
          through each possible grid to find
          him.  It's going to take a while.

Tanner studying the screen as if it were a chess board.
Long beat, before --

                         TANNER
          Grid fourteen.

                         ENGINEER
          How do you know?

                         TANNER
          It's the most recursive.  Take the
          longest to search.
                  (beat)
          If he's smart, that's where he is.

Engineer shrugs, might as well try.  Eliminates the rest
of the grids.

                         ENGINEER
          Let's hope he's smart.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - NEXUS CENTER

Christoph turns back to the program panel and punches in
commands.  He moves with the confident sense of someone
who has total control.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Halden stands over Emma, watching as she inspects the
smoking remains of the console.

                         HALDEN
          How long 'till we can eject?

                         EMMA
          We're going to have to reconfigure.

                         HALDEN
          How long?

                         EMMA
          At least a day.

Not what Halden wanted to hear.  For the first time, a
look of real panic in his eyes.

The engineer snaps his eyes up to Tanner, impressed.

                         ENGINEER
          You called it.  Dead center in the
          grid.

                         TANNER
          How far away?

The tracing matrix flashing a single-point coordinate.

                         ENGINEER
          Two hundred and sixty-one
          kilometers.

Tanner and Halden exchange a look.  Smallest flicker of
hope.

                         TANNER
          We can be there in fifteen minutes
          and rip him off the system.

                         HALDEN
          Go!


EXT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - ROOF - MOMENTS LATER

Tanner and the assault team rush to the waiting jet-
copters.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - NEXUS CENTER

Christoph has resumed humming the Lord's Hymn.  His
fingers racing over the keyboard, causing --

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

All hell to break lose.  Alarms POUNDING the room.
Monitors going blank, engineers punching keys in futile
frustration.

                         ENGINEER
          He's locked-it up!

                         EMMA
          Completely sealed-off.  No one gets
          in and no one gets out.

                         ENGINEER
          System's running on pure auxiliary.

                         HALDEN
          How long?

Emma's eyes spin down to a monitor.

                         EMMA
          Just over two million people
          plugged-in.
                  (runs the
                   calculations)
          System can run seven hours before it
          crashes.

Slowly looks up at Halden.

                         EMMA
          Then everyone dies.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  JET-COPTER - CONTINUOUS

The copter clawing its way through the savage storm.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - NEXUS CENTER

Christoph strips off his mask and grabs a tele-com from a
fallen cop.  He calmly turns to the monitor.

                         CHRISTOPH (INTO TELE-COM)
          Put on Halden.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Emma tries to hand her tele-com to Halden, but he's frozen
in place, eyes locked on the monitor.

Christoph, on the monitor, smiles at Halden.

Halden looks like he's staring at a ghost.  Finally takes
Emma's tele-com.

                         HALDEN (INTO TELE-COM)
          This is Halden.

                         CHRISTOPH (ON MONITOR)
          Halden, how nice to hear your voice.

                         HALDEN (INTO TELE-COM)
          What do you want?

                         CHRISTOPH (ON MONITOR)
          I have found in life that what one
          wants isn't nearly as important as
          what one needs.

                         HALDEN (INTO TELE-COM)
                  (evenly)
          What do you need?

                         CHRISTOPH (ON MONITOR)
          I need to take back what's mine.

Halden stares at him, trying to keep his voice calm.

                         HALDEN (INTO TELE-COM)
          There are two million people in
          there with you.

                         CHRISTOPH (ON MONITOR)
          Yes.

                         HALDEN (INTO TELE-COM)
          They have nothing to do with this --

                         CHRISTOPH (ON MONITOR)
          -- Two million people lost in the
          digital night.  What do they seek?

Christoph waits for an answer.  None is offered.

                         CHRISTOPH (ON MONITOR)
          Do they seek escape?  The comfort of
          eternal night?  Or perhaps it's
          more.
                  (beat)
          Unanswered sins.  The taste of
          death.

He turns to the keyboard, programming --

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - SKY - CONTINUOUS

A small burst of fire falls from the corner of the sky.


EXT.  NIGHT CLUB - ROOF

The flames drift down, searing straight through the
roof --


INT.  NIGHT CLUB - CONTINUOUS

The place is packed full of people.  The fire swirling
down, looking like part of the light show.


INT.  NEXUS CENTER

Christoph's watching the night club on his monitor.  A
flicker of private torment in his eyes at what he knows is
coming.


INT.  NIGHT CLUB - CONTINUOUS

The flames drift down onto a YOUNG WOMAN --

Dropping her to the dance floor, writhing in tortured
anguish.

She yells for help through the slowest of death as the
flames burn through her body.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  SAN FRANCISCO - TELEGRAPH HILL - CONTINUOUS

The San Francisco VSI public interface center sits perched
under the shadows of Coit Tower.


INT.  SAN FRANCISCO INTERFACE CENTER - CONTINUOUS

Thousands of customers lie motionless in interface seats.
The soft glow of bio-monitors checking vital signs.

One of the monitors begins to buzz.

Several MEDICAL TECHNICIANS rush over, whipping a curtain
around the interface seat.

It's the young woman from the night club.

Her eyes thrust back in her head, body contorting in
searing pain.  Then finally, mercifully, it's over.

Her body limp, bio-monitors showing her brain activity
flatlined.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - NIGHT CLUB - CONTINUOUS

More fire cascades down through the roof.

The dancers screaming in panic, pushing and shoving to get
out of there but the doors lock, trapping them inside.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE BUILDING - CONTROL ROOM

Halden's watching on the monitor as the flames rain down.

                         HALDEN (INTO TELE-COM)
                  (yells)
          God-Damn you!

                         CHRISTOPH (FROM MONITOR)
          Yes, I believe he has --

                         HALDEN (INTO TELE-COM)
          -- You've made your point!  You've
          got control of the system.


INT.  NIGHT CITY - NEXUS CENTER

Christoph nods, punching in commands for --


INT.  NIGHT CITY - NIGHT CLUB

The fire flickers, then disappears.  No one else has to
die.


INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTROL ROOM

Christoph turns back from the keyboard, looking out at
Halden.

                         CHRISTOPH (ON MONITOR)
          But instincts are so hard to over-
          ride.
                  (matter-of-fact)
          Yours will be to try and send
          someone in to stop me.

Halden says nothing.

                         CHRISTOPH (ON MONITOR)
          The system's locked-up, so the only
          way in is through the maze.
                  (stares at him)
          Which is why I've changed it.  Your
          access program will no longer work.

He scoops up the laser cannon, aiming for a program panel.

Halden's mind spinning, trying one last tact.

                         HALDEN (INTO TELE-COM)
          System's running on auxiliary.  Only
          seven hours before it crashes.

                         CHRISTOPH (ON MONITOR)
          True.

                         HALDEN (INTO TELE-COM)
          You're in there.  Everybody dies,
          you go with them --

                         CHRISTOPH (ON MONITOR)
          -- But don't you remember?
                  (pointed)
          I'm already dead.

He spins, laser cannon HISSING.

Destroys the program panel, causing the rest of the
control room's monitors to plunge into darkness.

Sudden, eerie silence as the corporation is now completely
cut off from Night City.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  JET-COPTER - CONTINUOUS

The jet-copter shuddering through the storm.  Lightning
slashing at the night.

Pilot's eyes on the nav-grid.  Flashing red.

                         PILOT
                  (to Tanner)
          We're right above him.

Search lights pounding the darkness.  Glinting off some
large metal object.  It looks like a steeple.


EXT.  CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

The jet-copter drops through the tempest, landing in the
field across from the church.


INT.  CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

Powerful search lights screaming through the stained glass
windows, washing the church in an ethereal mosaic of
color.

The sounds of the storm crashing into the walls.

A flash of lightning revealing the doors and windows have
all been rigged with trip wire booby traps.


EXT.  CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

Tanner leads the assault team as they rush across the
field.


INT.  CHURCH

The doors crash open as Tanner and the men charge in.

The trip wires broken.

An explosion --

Of sound as organ music suddenly blares out.

Recording of a choir kicking in, heavenly voices blasting
from all directions.

The assault team standing rigid in place, staring up at --

Christoph hanging crucifixion style from the blood-
streaked cross.

He is dead, a wire running from his finger down to a
portable computer on the alter.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - CONTINUOUS

Halden hurries down the hallway with Emma at his side.

                         HALDEN
          Have communications contact all
          interface centers.  Tell them due to
          high demand, we're at full capacity
          and so temporarily there's no room
          for anyone else on the system.

                         EMMA
          What about the customers with
          reservations?

                         HALDEN
          Have the staff apologize profusely
          and issue credit vouchers.
                  (adamant)
          But remember, it's a capacity
          problem.  That's all.

Emma nods, understands.

                         HALDEN
          And send someone through the maze.

She stares at him, not sure she heard this right.

                         EMMA
          The maze has been changed --

                         HALDEN
                  (snaps)
          -- He says the maze has been changed.
          I need to know for sure.

He turns the corner, disappearing out the door before she
can respond.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

The assault team takes Christoph's corpse off the cross
and lays him out on the alter.

                         ASSAULT TEAM LEADER
                  (stares at Tanner)
          Thought you were just talking to
          this guy?

                         TANNER
          We were.

                         ASSAULT TEAM LEADER
          Yeah, well feel this fucker's skin.
          Ice cold.
                  (trying to understand)
          I guarantee you this sonofabitch's
          been dead at least half a day.

A beat for this to sink in.  Everybody staring at
Christoph's corpse like they were looking at the Devil.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - NEXUS CENTER

Christoph punches a command into the keyboard.  Bodies and
the blood disappear, leaving no sign of the killing.

Sound of clapping.  Christoph whirls.  It's Dex.

                         DEX
          Ah, the perks of paradise.  So easy
          to hide your guilt.

Both men stare at each other.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Remember, I'm not the one who chose
          this.

                         DEX
          Yes, so which one of us does that
          make the coward?

A deadly smile on Christoph's lips as he lets this one go.
He turns and heads down the catwalk.

                         DEX
          Where the hell are you going?

                         CHRISTOPH
          Unfinished business.

                         DEX
          And what about the reconfiguration?

                         CHRISTOPH
          Perfect opportunity for you to
          demonstrate your continued worth.

Christoph disappears down the stairs.

Dex leans over the railing, waiting until Christoph comes
out onto the ground floor, yelling to him --

                         DEX
          You sure he's going to come?

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (calls back)
          It's his nature.

                         DEX
          But what if he doesn't --

                         CHRISTOPH
          -- He will.

He heads out through the door.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - INTERFACE ROOM

Emma watches as an ENGINEER climbs into an interface seat.

                         EMMA
          You don't have to run the whole
          thing.  Just probe the first few
          seconds.

                         ENGINEER
          Piece of cake.

He gives her a thumbs-up, no point in showing the fear.
Then sticks his finger into the connect-box.


INT.  THE NET - CONTINUOUS

Blackness of the void.

A blink of a light.  Colorless.  Racing into the maze --

An explosion of color and shapes hurtling all around with
blurring speed --

The engineer navigates around the first corner, cutting a
safe path, the "keys" seeming to be working, only --

Suddenly everything shifting.  Get the hell out of there.
Only behind him, the maze morphing --

Dizzying design of color.  Breath-taking beauty.  Closing
in on him.  Nowhere to run --

Flash of bright light.

The sound of a tortured SCREAM.

Then nothing.  Silence...

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

The rain has started to slow.

The assault team's outside, smoking cigarettes,
bullshitting with each other, trying to forget what they
saw in there, as --


INT.  CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

Tanner probes through Christoph's blood stained computer.
Stops on a program.  Complex codes flashing down the
screen.

                         TANNER
          Voice activate.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE (FROM COMPUTER)
          Activated.

                         TANNER
          Program name?

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
          Resurrection.

                         TANNER
          Describe program function.

A soft whir as the machine checks.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
          Resurrection.

Tanner stares at the codes, his face torn with revulsion.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - NEXUS

Dex stands alone in the middle of the Nexus.

He punches a command into the programming panel, causing
the small roll of fat to disappear from his gut.

He smiles in satisfaction, then throws in another command.
His hair thickening, flecks of gray evaporating.

He enters one last command.  Last fifteen years of lines
melting from his face.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

The roar of a jet-copter fills the church.

Tanner snaps his eyes out a window.  Halden and his men
pouring from the copter.

Tanner whips his attention back to the computer, talking
as fast as he can.

                         TANNER
          Transmit copy of program via
          satellite north uplink.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
          Destination?

                         TANNER
          Tanner-eighteen-six-two-nine.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
          Checking connection.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  TANNER'S WAREHOUSE LOFT - CONTINUOUS

The place is dark and empty.

The storm crashing against the windows as the wall monitor
snaps on to the garbled sound of machines talking to each
other.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

Tanner stares out the window, watching as Halden and
company rush toward the church.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
          Connection approved.  Ready to
          transmit --

                         TANNER
          -- Transmit now!

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  TANNER'S WAREHOUSE LOFT - CONTINUOUS

The program codes racing down the monitor.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

Halden and his men head straight for the alter, staring
down at Christoph's corpse in disgust.

Tanner's eyes burning into Halden.

                         TANNER
          You had no right!

Halden calmly turns to face him.

                         HALDEN
          You're jumping to conclusions.

                         TANNER
          He's not plugged-into the system.
          He's in the fucking system!

Halden doesn't argue.

                         TANNER
          Who the hell do you think you are --

Halden snaps a silent command for his men to clear out.
He waits until they're out the door before turning back to
Tanner.

                         HALDEN
          We caught him working on neural map
          transfers.  We dug through his
          system.  He was trying to transfer
          genetic modules into data-molds.
          His employment was instantly
          terminated.
                  (seemingly genuine)
          Corporate hands are clean.

Tanner's eyes dig into him.

                         TANNER
          Try harder.

                         HALDEN
          Christoph had spinal cancer.  His
          body kept rejecting gene therapy.
          He was desperate.
                  (insists)
          It was him, it wasn't us --

                         TANNER
          -- I saw the program.

This freezes Halden.

                         TANNER
          Corporate fingerprints all over it.

                         HALDEN
          Of course they are.
                  (explains)
          Christoph was stealing every piece
          of code he could get his hands on.

                         TANNER
          And you weren't involved.

It takes all of Tanner's energy to hold back the rage.

                         TANNER
          Because why the hell would you be
          interested in a program that allows
          people to live inside your machines?
                  (locks eyes with him)
          I mean how much profit could there
          possibly be from owning the universe
          and selling space in it to people
          who are dying, or people who are just
          God-Damned sick of this world --

                         HALDEN
          -- Come on, you know F.C.O. regs.
          Anyone caught with their R and D
          hand in the bio-digitization cookie
          jar spends the rest of their life in
          federal penitentiary.
                  (swears)
          It's not worth it.

Tanner studies Halden for several long beats, then shakes
his head.

                         TANNER
          You're loosing your touch.
                  (pointed)
          Used to be a hell of a lot harder to
          know when you're lying.

He turns and heads for the door as --

                         HALDEN
          He sealed-off the system.

Tanner doesn't stop, almost near the door.

                         HALDEN
          The only way to eject it is from the
          inside.

                         TANNER
                  (without turning)
          You've got the keys, send someone
          in --

                         HALDEN
          -- Christoph changed the maze.

This freezes Tanner.

                         HALDEN
          I need someone who can run it blind.

Search lights blare through the stained glass windows,
smearing Tanner's face in color.

                         HALDEN
          Two million people in there, Tanner.

Tanner slowly turns around.

                         HALDEN
          And if the system crashes, they all
          get to spend the rest of their lives
          hooked-up to God-Damn coma machines.

Tanner stares at him.  No choice.  Halden smiles.

                         TANNER
          One condition.

                         HALDEN
          What?

                         TANNER
          The truth.

Halden studies Tanner.  No negotiation.  Halden's smile
fades.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - THE TERRACE - PENTHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

The penthouse apartment is completely barren except for a
beige couch.

                         CHRISTOPH'S VOICE (O.S.)
          Enlarge to one-hundred and seventy.

The couch increases in size.

                         CHRISTOPH'S VOICE (O.S.)
          Bump to one-hundred and eighty.

The couch gets a little bigger.

Christoph sits on the floor, studying the image of a couch
which flickers on the screen of the small rectangular
viewer he holds.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Off-white pleats.

The pleats appear on the couch across from him.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - A LITTLE LATER

Halden escorts Tanner down the corridor.

A small knot of GUARDS stand rigidly in front of an
office.  Halden nods to them and they unlock the door,
stepping away.


INT.  CHRISTOPH'S OFFICE

Halden motions Tanner into Christoph's office.

                         HALDEN
          Exactly as Christoph left it.

The office is perfectly clean and organized.

A dialysis machine next to the desk.  Several computers.
Wall size monitor.

Tanner looks through the desk.  A couple of disks.  Empty
morphine vials.  A hypodermic.  Not much else.

The work table dominated by a scaled model of a building.

                         TANNER
          What is it?

                         HALDEN
          The Terrace.  First building
          Christoph ever programmed for us.

                         TANNER
          A hotel?

                         HALDEN
          It's not used for anything.

Tanner looks up at him for an explanation.

                         HALDEN
          Christoph was a brilliant
          programmer, but very eccentric.
                  (beat)
          He insisted it be kept vacant.

                         TANNER
          Why?

                         HALDEN
          He wouldn't say.

Tanner stares at him.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  THE TERRACE - PENTHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

The apartment is now fully furnished in perfect Park
Avenue chic.


INT.  BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Christoph sits in an antique chair across from the large
canopy bed, staring in rapt fascination at --


INT.  VIEWER SCREEN

Various unconnected images flash by in dream-like quality:

A young freckled-face boy being tucked into bed.

A rat-hole of an apartment, broken windows, and blood
stained walls.

Two teenage boys with baseball bats beat the shit out of a
young girl.

A sickly looking man taking a shower.

A black dress is pulled from a store rack, a hand turning
around the tag so the price can be seen.  The dress is
quickly put back --


INT.  BEDROOM

Christoph looks up from the viewer, his eyes sliding to
the closet.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI BUILDING - CHRISTOPH'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Halden watches as Tanner probes through Christoph's
computer files.

                         TANNER
          Christoph was in charge of designing
          building modules.

                         HALDEN
          That's right.

                         TANNER
          Then what's with all the staffing
          programs in his account?

                         HALDEN
          Good question.

Tanner looks up, but Halden isn't going to give him any
help on this one.

The computer screen flashing images of waiters,
waitresses, hosts, playmates, bell-boys.

Tanner staring at the pictures of digital employees
whipping across the screen, slowly realizing...

                         TANNER
          Modules.

He stares back up at Halden.

                         TANNER
          Takes you a long time to build a
          staffing program from the bottom up.

Halden's not saying a damn word.  Tanner looks disgusted
as he puts it together.

                         TANNER
          Be a hell of a lot easier to
          digitize a real person, then strip
          them down to a module you can use to
          make as many employee programs as
          you need.

                         HALDEN
                  (long beat)
          Yes, in theory, I suppose that would
          work.

But Tanner isn't interested in theory, his eyes tearing
into him.

                         TANNER
          Who did he digitize?

                         HALDEN
          Listen to yourself.  Digitization.
                  (smiles)
          You know that officially that's a
          pure fantasy --

                         TANNER
          -- Who did he digitize?!

A frozen beat, then Halden meets Tanner's stare.

                         HALDEN
          Christoph had complete autonomy.
                  (seemingly genuine)
          Because I didn't want to know.

He snaps off the computer, signaling the end of the
conversation.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - THE TERRACE - BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The candle-opera has been placed on the dresser, bathing
the room in golden light.

Gena materializes on the bed.  She is naked.

She looks around the room disorientated.

A long beat, then she climbs to her feet, moving
unsteadily across the hardwood floor.  It is almost as if
she is drunk.

She freezes as she catches her reflection in the mirror.
She looks surprised that she is naked.


INT.  WALK-IN CLOSET

The closet is full of clothes.  She stares at them with a
puzzled expression, then pulls a dress off a hanger.

It is the black dress that was seen in the viewer.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI HEADQUARTERS - HALLWAY

Emma stands in front of the interface room, waiting for
Tanner and Halden as they head down the hallway toward
her.

She holds up a mini-disk for Tanner to see.

                         EMMA
          We're sending you in with a top-
          level access card.  It'll get you
          into every program, including the
          core.

Halden locks eyes with Tanner.

                         HALDEN
          Obviously, not something Christoph
          should get his hands on.

Tanner nods as they head inside --


INT.  INTERFACE ROOM

Emma leads them across the room to an interface seat.

                         EMMA
          We've rigged the card so it should
          stay attached to you as you run the
          maze.
                  (beat)
          So once you materialize inside, it
          should be on the ground right next
          to you.

                         TANNER
          Good.

She loads the mini-disk into the interface seat.

                         EMMA
          With the access card it should be
          easy.  All you've got to do is get
          into the core program and hot-wire
          the eject sequence.
                  (warns)
          But be prepared, it'll be a hard
          eject --

A technician wheels up his medi-cart.

                         EMMA
          All the infrastructure gets dumped,
          then everyone's ripped out into the
          net.

Tanner nods, then turns his attention to the technician.

                         TANNER
          Adrenaline.  140 cc's.

                         MEDICAL TECHNICIAN
                  (filling the syringe)
          Man likes his juice.

                         TANNER
          And once I'm through, bring me down
          fast with Dexaline.

                         MEDICAL TECHNICIAN
                  (under his breath)
          If you get through...

Emma shoots him a hard look.  Technician shrugs, calls it
as he sees it.

Tanner rolls up his sleeve as he climbs into the interface
seat.

                         TANNER
          Let's do it --

The technician sticks the needle into Tanner's arm.

Only a beat before the adrenaline hits Tanner's system.
His body shaking, eyes rolling back in his head.

The technician eyes the bio-monitor, waiting until Tanner
is peaking before plunging Tanner's finger into the
connect-box.


INT.  THE NET - BLACKNESS

Slice of color racing toward us.  Hyper-fast.

Tanner hurtling toward it.  Explosion of light.  Blinding
intensity.

Tanner rips through the maze, navigating at dizzying speed
through the interlocking patterns.

Dodging and twisting through the blur of obstacles.

Under it all, a sound.  Almost a voice.  Female.  Too
feint to hear.  Calling out 'Tanner'.

Dropping down.  Into the maze's heart.  Lines slamming at
him.  No way to beat it, only he's --

Spinning between the lines.  Always changing.  Too fast to
see.  Making it down into --

The center of the maze.

An intricate pattern so dense it looks like a solid,
impenetrable wall of light --

The wall collapsing in on Tanner.  No escape --

He rockets straight into it.  Inevitable death --

Only he screams straight up, twisting, spinning, hurtling
through the tinniest of fractures and out the other side
into --

Nothingness.  Empty blackness.

Then the muffled sound of breathing.  Dull thud of a
heartbeat, followed by music.  Louder and louder.  A hard
driving samba.

A thick mist covering fluttering images.

There are people here.  Too many of them.  Screaming.  A
hideous sound.


INT.  NIGHT CITY - MARDE GRAS SQUARE

Tanner materializing in the midst of the pulsing street
party.

Ornate costumes.  Vivid colors.  Crush of celebrants
gyrating to the music.

The ACCESS CARD materializes on the ground next to him.

Tanner picks up the card, his eyes blinking, fighting for
clarity.

But the adrenaline pounding his vision.  Everything
distorted.  Grotesque...

A face cuts through the chaos.  Angelic beauty.  Katie --

Tanner stares at her.  She sees him, face breaking into a
smile.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Gena, wearing the black dress, stumbles out of the bedroom
and around the living room in growing confusion.

Christoph sits on the couch, calmly watching her.

She finally turns to him.

                         GENA
          It's all here...

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (proud)
          Yes.

She shakes her head, stunned.

                         GENA
          But it's everything.  Everything
          I've seen.  Everything I've
          wanted...
                  (barely audible)
          Only I know about all of this --

Her eyes suddenly frozen at the photos on the mantle.

They're her photos.  Baby picture.  High school
graduation.  Wedding photo.

She is beginning to tremble.

The doorbell rings.

Several digital waiters and waitresses head out of the
kitchen, carrying silver trays of hor d'oeuvres and
champagne.

Christoph stands, kissing Gena on the cheek.

                         CHRISTOPH
          The guests are here.

                         GENA
                  (whispers)
          Guests?

                         CHRISTOPH
          Just like you always wanted.

A digital jazz band materializes in the corner.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Get out of South Dakota and move to
          New York where you can throw
          cocktail parties in your Park Avenue
          apartment.

She's trying to process all of this, but it's too
overwhelming.  The only words she can manage are --

                         GENA
          But this is impossible.

                         CHRISTOPH
          That's the grace of this world.
                  (smiles)
          Nothing's impossible.

The doorbell rings again.  He motions to her bare feet.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Better get some shoes on.

He turns to answer the door.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI BUILDING - INTERFACE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The medical technician's eyes are glued to the bio-
monitor.

                         MEDICAL TECHNICIAN
                  (amazed)
          He made it!  Son-of-a-bitch actually
          ran it!

Emma's eyes involuntarily flick down to her watch.

                         EMMA
          Just under five hours left before it
          crashes.

Halden's face is impassive, revealing nothing.

The medical technician shoots Tanner up with dexaline.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - MARDE GRAS SQUARE - CONTINUOUS

Tanner is still fighting his way to Katie.  She's
laughing, urging him on.

The dexaline starting to clear his consciousness.

He's finally able to focus.  The street.  Buildings.  And
Katie.  Only it's not Katie.

Just someone that looks a little like her.  The woman
laughing with her companion.

Tanner stands frozen in the middle of the street.  He
looks out of place.  Haunted eyes in the midst of wild
celebration.

He quickly turns and heads out of the square.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  THE TERRACE - HALLWAY

About a dozen well-dressed GUESTS stand waiting outside.
They all hold invitations.

The door opens and Christoph greets them with a warm
smile.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Please, come on in.

As they head into the apartment, the elevator arrives in
the hall, bringing more people.

Christoph ushers in this new group, then slips into the
elevator.


INT.  APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Gena still stands barefooted in the middle of the room.

The band starts up, pouring sultry jazz throughout the
room.

More and more people are filtering inside.  Gena stands
there rigid, a sense of growing panic in her eyes.

She can feel people beginning to stare at her.

Someone pops open a champagne bottle.  Sound of laughter.

More guests arrive.  A man in the corner smiles at her,
beckoning her over.

She backs away from him, moving unsteadily through the
party and out the door.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  THE TERRACE - ROOF TOP GARDEN - CONTINUOUS

Gena remains asleep on the brass bed.

The sound of distant jazz music fills the air, waking her
up.

As her eyes open, she sees Christoph heading silently
toward her.  He motions for her to close her eyes.

                         CHRISTOPH
          It's okay, go back to sleep.

But something about his voice sets her on edge.

                         GENA
          What's happening?

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (soothing)
          Nothing, go back to sleep.

But she sees the glint of steel in his hand.  The laser he
has hidden down by his side.

She bolts upright --

                         GENA
          What the hell's going on?!

He looks uncomfortable, this isn't a confrontation he was
expecting.  Finally...

                         CHRISTOPH
          It's time to wake up.

                         GENA
          Wake up?!

                         CHRISTOPH
          From the dream.

She doesn't know what the hell he's talking about and she
doesn't want to know.  She flies off the bed, only --

He moves with blurring speed, grabbing her, throwing her
back onto the bed.  She's pleading now.

                         GENA
          Don't fucking do this.  I've got a
          son.  I'm all he's got.  So don't
          you dare fucking do this --

Hissing of a laser.

Burns a hole right between her eyes.

A blood trickle smearing the mattress.

Christoph's face is a study in anguish.

The jazz music still bathing the roof.  He whips around.

Gena stands across the roof staring at him.  The digitized
Gena, the one who is barefooted and wearing the black
dress.

She is shaking, her face white as a ghost.

                         CHRISTOPH
          It's okay.

                         DIGITAL GENA
                  (barely audible)
          Okay...

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (reassuring)
          It's all been transferred.

She doesn't understand.  He moves to her, his voice
impassioned.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Genetic codes.  Consciousness.
          Unconsciousness.  Every single
          dream.  Every kiss, real or
          imagined.  The shadows of her soul.
          It's all in you.

She stares at him, her voice trembling.

                         DIGITAL GENA
          Why?

                         CHRISTOPH
          To live forever.

His face burns with compassion as he explains.

                         CHRISTOPH
          People plug-into this world, but
          remain linked to their flesh and
          blood body.  Such an encumbrance.
                  (beat)
          Even if their bodies are kept on
          machines, nourished by IV's, the
          laws of nature eventually will be
          respected.  The body grows old and
          dies.  Then they're gone from both
          worlds.

Somewhere deep inside, she is beginning to understand.
But it brings her no comfort.

Christoph heads for the elevator, motioning for her to
follow.  But she doesn't.

                         DIGITAL GENA
          She said I have a son...

                         CHRISTOPH
          No, she said she had a son.
                  (quiet)
          In a dream she once called life.

She stares at him.

                         DIGITAL GENA
          How come I can't remember?

                         CHRISTOPH
          Because I took it out of your
          memory.

                         DIGITAL GENA
                  (beat)
          Why --

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (spins on her)
          -- Because there'll be no remorse.
          Not in my world.

A private darkness in his eyes as he turns and disappears
into the elevator, leaving her alone on the roof.

The sound of partying echoing through the night.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STREET

Tanner moves down the crowded street, passing --


EXT.  THE GATES

A growing mob of angry people bottlenecked out front.

                         HOSTESS
          The gates are temporarily closed for
          routine maintenance.  But they will
          reopen soon --

                         OLDER MAN
          -- Been saying that for an hour,
          now!

                         HOSTESS
          It won't be much longer.
                  (cheerful)
          And we do appreciate your patience.

                         DISTRAUGHT WOMAN
          But I need to get back now.  I've
          got to pick my kids up from school!

The hostess keeps smiling, it's all she's programmed to
do.

                         HOSTESS
          To help make the short wait more
          enjoyable, drinks are on the house
          across the street at Dante's Tavern.

But there are no takers.  Everyone keeping their place in
line as these people need to get home.

Tanner cuts through the crowd, his eyes burning with
determination.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  NIGHT CITY - TIVOLI PARK

Tanner moves pass the carnival and is about to turn the
corner, but stops as he catches a glimpse of a familiar
building.

The Terrace is right across the street.

The building is dark except for the flashing lights from
the top floor.

Tanner stares up at the lights.


INT.  THE TERRACE - LOBBY

The marbled lobby is like a museum.  Priceless paintings
and tapestries fill the walls.

Tanner heads through the lobby and into --


INT.  OUTDOOR GLASS ELEVATOR

He pushes the button for the penthouse.

The elevator glides effortlessly up the side of the
building.

The colored lights of Night City swirling through the
glass.


INT.  THE TERRACE - PENTHOUSE

Tanner slowly steps inside.  He's tensed, not really
knowing what to expect.

The party is in full-swing.  Someone offers Tanner
champagne but he declines.

He looks around the room, his eyes stopping on the mantle.

He picks up one of the photos of Gena --

                         OLDER WOMAN
          You looking for her?

Tanner looks up at the woman.

                         OLDER WOMAN
          She went up.

                         TANNER
          Up?

                         OLDER WOMAN
                  (points)
          To the roof.


EXT.  THE TERRACE - ROOF

Tanner moves slowly across the roof, the candles throwing
flickering images across his face.

He stops at the brass bed.  It is empty save for the blood
stain.

                         GENA'S VOICE (O.S.)
          You work for them, don't you.

Tanner spins.  The digital Gena sits in the corner.  She
tries to force a smile.

                         DIGITAL GENA
          That would explain your little
          disappearing act in the bar.

He takes a slow, cautious step toward her.

                         TANNER
          What happened here --

                         DIGITAL GENA
          -- He works for them too, doesn't
          he?

                         TANNER
                  (beat)
          Who?

                         DIGITAL GENA
          The sonofabitch who did this.

She pierces her arm with a broach pin.  She doesn't bleed.

                         DIGITAL GENA
                  (quiet shame)
          I'm not real, am I?

He stares at her, doesn't know the answer to that one.

She meets his stare, terrified of the answer.

                         DIGITAL GENA
          And I can't go back, can I?

Tanner wishes he could lie.  But can't.

                         TANNER
          That's right.

She absorbs this in steely silence.  Longest of beats.

                         DIGITAL GENA
          He failed.

She stares at him, trying to keep back the emotions.

                         DIGITAL GENA
          I'm making a sandwich.  Just like my
          mom would.  It's raining outside.
          The sandwich isn't for me.  It's for
          him.  And that makes me feel
          something.
                  (barely audible)
          No words for it.  But I'll never
          forget.

Her eyes are wet.  Her voice coming out in a tortured
whisper.

                         DIGITAL GENA
          All the memories around him are
          still there...

He watches her, tormented by the fact that he can't find
anything comforting to say.

She turns her eyes out into the night, giving him silent
permission to leave.


EXT.  THE TERRACE - MOMENTS LATER

The elevator deposits Tanner down on the street as the
Tivoli's fireworks show starts overhead.

Colored explosions raining down as Tanner disappears into
the night.


INT.  DEAD-END ALLEY - A LITTLE LATER

Tanner heads into the alley.  A holographic map of Night
City shimmers in front of him.

                         DISEMBODIED FRIENDLY VOICE (O.S.)
          You are here.
                  (red X glows on the
                   map)
          To reach the club district, simply
          turn around and head --

Tanner reaches through the holograph, sliding his access
card into the slot on the wall.

The map disappears as the wall opens.


INT.  DARKNESS

Tanner's voice calls out.

                         TANNER'S VOICE (O.S.)
          Lights.

The lights flicker on as Tanner races down the tunnel,
sprinting around the bend and into --


INT.  DIGITAL EMPLOYEE STORAGE CENTER

The long rows of storage racks are empty, the reserve
employees no longer there.

Tanner stares uneasily at the barren racks as he makes his
way through the room and down the stairs into --


INT.  HALLWAY

Tanner slides his access card into the door.  It opens for
him, revealing --


INT.  NEXUS CENTER

The place is buzzing with activity.

Dex supervises an army of digital employees as they move
across the catwalks rewiring the program panels with
cables.

Tanner silently slips into the room and up the --


INT.  STAIRS

Tanner makes his way up around the corner, suddenly coming
face to face with a WAITER --

Only unlike the usual polite cheerfulness programmed into
Night City's waiters, this guy has been given a hard,
glaring face.

The waiter pulls his laser --

Tanner hurls himself forward, knocking both of them to the
floor.

It's Tanner who manages to come up with the gun.

The waiter squeezing Tanner's throat with savage force as
Tanner fires, again and again.

The waiter twitching, then falling motionless.  His body
sliced with holes but not bleeding.

Tanner pockets the gun and heads up the stairs --


INT.  CATWALK

The catwalk is crawling with digital employees, all of
them armed.


INT.  STAIRS

Tanner takes a deep breath, then walks right out onto --


INT.  CATWALK

Tanner walks briskly, eyes down on the steel grating,
assuming the attitude of someone who belongs there.

He opens a program panel, typing commands into the
keyboard.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE (FROM PROGRAM)
          Food and service program sub-six.
          Access codes required.

Tanner pulls out his access card and slides it into the
panel.

A clicking sound as data glitters across the screen.

Tanner steals a quick look around.

Dex is heading out onto the catwalk.  He has his back
turned to Tanner and hasn't seen him yet.

Tanner spins back to the program, data still whipping
across the screen.  Tanner silently urges it on, faster
and faster.

And finally it buzzes --

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
          Access granted.
                  (beat)
          Male or female?

                         TANNER
          Male.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
          Waiter, busboy, Maitre-De --

                         TANNER
          -- Waiter.

Dex is now turning in Tanner's direction.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
          Standard, modern, upscale --

                         TANNER
          -- Standard.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
          Scanning body type.

Tanner turns to the wall, trying to keep his face hidden
as Dex approaches.

Long frozen beat.

Dex is almost right on top of him --

The program buzzes --

Tanner is now wearing a waiter's uniform.

Dex's hand slams down on the back of Tanner's shoulder --

Tanner tenses, hand reaching for his laser, only --

Dex twists Tanner's head so it's looking up at the open
program panel.

                         DEX
          Keep this one shut, we're not wiring
          it.

Tanner nods, keeping his back turned to him.

Dex moves on, continuing with his inspection.  Tanner
pulls the access card from the program and heads back to
the --


INT.  STAIRS

Tanner, still in a waiter's uniform, heads up to the --


INT.  FIFTH FLOOR CATWALK

He moves to another program panel and opens it, typing
into the keyboard.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
          Core program.  Access codes
          required.

Tanner starts to slide in the access card but freezes.

Still heartbeat.  Tanner whirls to the side.

CHRISTOPH is a hair's breath away.  Perfectly still.  Calm
smile of someone who's been standing there a while.

                         CHRISTOPH
          An honor.  The legend visits.

Tanner's hand dives for his laser.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Mistake --

Tanner is fast.  But Christoph's a blur.  Beyond human
speed.

Snaps the laser from Tanner's hand and flings it
harmlessly down the catwalk.

Christoph turns, regarding Tanner with genuine respect.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Maker of the perfect maze.
          Impossible to run.  So many try,
          none succeed.  Yet, you're here.
                  (impressed)
          You succeeded.

Tanner stares at him, trying to understand.

                         TANNER
          The patterns were moved around, but
          they weren't changed.

                         CHRISTOPH
          True.  But why?

He lets the question hang there, then takes a step toward
Tanner.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Halden sent men to kill me in my
          sleep, but simple illusions won out.
                  (beat)
          So he now sends the legend to finish
          the deed.

                         TANNER
          No.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Then what?

Tanner is silent.  Christoph's eyes burn into him.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Eject the system?

Christoph steps even closer.  Tanner can feel his breath.

                         CHRISTOPH
          But what would happen to me?  I have
          no body to return to.

                         TANNER
          Not my problem.

                         CHRISTOPH
          So wrong --

He moves so fast, impossible for Tanner to react.

Picks up Tanner and hurls him down the catwalk.

Tanner crashes hard into the steel grating.  Searing pain
as he fights for a breath.

He sees his laser not that far away.

Tanner lunges, one fluid motion, grabs the laser, spins
and fires --

Only Christoph is no longer there.

Tanner's shot burning through a wall.

Christoph is now on the other side of Tanner.  Foot
blurring down, pinning Tanner's gun hand to the ground.

                         CHRISTOPH
          I will not die.  Not again.
                  (intense)
          One of the perks of divinity.

Tanner stares at him.

                         TANNER
          Divinity?

                         CHRISTOPH
          Yes.

                         TANNER
          You are not a God.

                         CHRISTOPH
          In here I am.

No bravado in how he says it.  Merely a statement of fact.

                         CHRISTOPH
          God creates man, man creates
          technology, technology creates God.
                  (beat)
          End into beginning.

                         TANNER
          In a computer program.

                         CHRISTOPH
          The new world.

                         TANNER
          It's not real.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Not real?

His foot suddenly smashing into Tanner's gut.

                         CHRISTOPH
          The pain is real.

Rips a STEEL POLE from the railing and slams it into
Tanner.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Deliciously real.

He pulls Tanner to his feet.

                         CHRISTOPH
          And if I kill you?

Dangles Tanner over the railing.  Hell of a drop.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Your body could live up there.  But
          on a machine.  No mind.  No dreams.
                  (hisses)
          So tell me this isn't real.

Silence.  Pain spasms through Tanner.

                         WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
          Enough.

A frozen beat.  Then Christoph pulls Tanner back up to the
catwalk.

KATIE is there.

Tanner stares at her.  She starts to say something but
Christoph stops her cold with a look, then turns to
Tanner.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Such a kind man, your employer.
                  (beat)
          Allowing you to fall in love with a
          program.

Katie can no longer look at Tanner, her eyes down on the
grating.

                         CHRISTOPH
          But she wasn't a designed program.
          Not this angel.
                  (reverently)
          We digitized her from flesh and
          blood.

His eyes flick from Katie to Tanner.

                         CHRISTOPH
          I was going to tell you, but Halden
          wouldn't allow it.  His nature
          demands no lose ends.
                  (quietly)
          So the flesh and blood Katie was
          killed.

Tanner's face is a mask, revealing nothing.  Christoph
locks eyes with him.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Yet she lives on in here, mind, body
          and soul.

His stare now ripping into Tanner --

                         CHRISTOPH
          So you of all people, should know
          this world is just as real, if not
          more than the nightmare you call
          the real world.
                  (disgust)
          People praying to Gods who don't
          listen.  Violence and decay.  No
          rhyme or reason.  To be young and
          told you are dying.  Nothing can be
          done.  Promise of life gone.  That
          will never happen here.

Tanner meets his stare.

                         TANNER
          You were the one who was dying.

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (a whisper)
          Yes...

Tanner's eyes burn with rage.

                         TANNER
          You sealed off the system.  When it
          crashes, everyone dies with you.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Yes, but only in the dream they call
          life.

                         TANNER
          Dream?!

                         CHRISTOPH
          And all dreams, no matter how
          appealing, must eventually end.

Tanner stares at him as if looking at insanity.

Christoph smiles, eerie calm as he turns to close the open
program panel.

Tanner dives with savage speed, grabbing the laser from
the ground.

The Nexus Center erupts with the SOUND of people pulling
guns --
                         KATIE
          Tanner --

Hundreds of lasers being trained on Tanner --

Tanner grabs Christoph, using him as a shield, the laser
jammed into Christoph's back.

Only Christoph fades away.  Just like that.

Tanner standing exposed on the catwalk.

The sound of lasers FIRING.

Tanner racing for cover.


INT.  GROUND FLOOR

Christoph materializes next to Dex, watching up above
as --


INT.  FIFTH FLOOR CATWALK

Lasers carve the air around Tanner.

Hissing and popping as chunks of metal disintegrate.

Tanner dives across the catwalk, throwing himself down
into the relative safety of --


INT.  STAIRWELL

Tanner pulls his laser as he races down the stairs.


INT.  GROUND FLOOR

Christoph grabs Dex's gun and calmly fires into a program
panel.

The panel sparks, circuitry destroyed, causing --


INT.  STAIRWELL

The stairs to flicker, then disappear.  Tanner falling
through empty space --


INT.  GROUND FLOOR

Tanner crashes hard to the ground with an explosion of
pain.

He comes up limping as laser fire slams all around him, He
hurls himself through the door and out into --


INT.  HALLWAY

He tries to run but his leg buckles, sending him sprawling
to the floor.  He picks himself up, clawing his way up the
stairs --


INT.  HALLWAY

Tanner is forcing himself to limp-run down the hallway,
pushing himself as fast as he can.

Behind him, he can hear the footsteps of Dex and the men
quickly gaining on him.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  THE TERRACE - ROOF - CONTINUOUS

The party has migrated to the roof.

The digital Gena stands silently in the corner, staring
out at the people.  They all seem so happy.

She grabs a glass of wine from a passing waiter.

She moves out into the center of the roof, drinking the
wine and swaying to the jazz music.

Several of the single men trying to establish eye contact
with her.

She begins to smile.  It's the kind of smile that could
turn to tears at any moment.

A dreamy look on her face as she walks across the party
and straight off the roof.

Falling through the night.


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - SIDEWALK

Her bloodless body laying twisted on the ground.

The soft breeze tugging at her coat, opening it enough to
see the photo nestled against her chest.

It's a photo of Gena as a small child.  The saddest of
smiles...

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  DEAD-END ALLEY

Tanner heads out through the alley and into the --


EXT.  STREET

His eyes searching for a place to hide.  Sees the dance
club across the street.

Tanner limps for the club as Dex and his men come
screaming out of the alley in hot pursuit.


INT.  HADES DANCE CLUB

Strobe lights slash the darkness.

Swirling sea of people.

Loud, angry, music.

Hard to make out faces in the flashes of illumination.

Tanner tries to lose himself in the anonymity of the
crowd.

Christoph has joined Dex and the men as they slice through
the club, eyes darting back and forth.

Tanner angles for the rear exit.

A slam-dancer crashes into him, sending him sprawling to
the floor.

Christoph cutting across the club toward Tanner.

Tanner tries to stand but can't, his leg no longer able to
hold his weight.

He sees Christoph heading toward him.

Tanner trying to scramble out of the way.

Christoph's eyes are scanning the faces around him, and it
appears he doesn't see Tanner down on the floor.

The song ends, people stop dancing.

Tanner finds a table and holes up under it --


INT.  UNDER THE TABLE

Tanner allows himself a deep breath.

A sudden EXPLOSION of sound.

Tanner spins, laser pointed.

But it's just the next song starting.  Tanner exhales.

The table is no longer there.

Christoph has ripped it off the ground and flung it out
onto the dance floor.

Tanner swings the laser around.

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (shakes his head)
          Halden's little killer, who --

Tanner FIRES!

The shot slams through Christoph's face but does
absolutely no damage.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Can't kill a God.

Tanner fires again.  And again.

The shots hit Christoph but don't hurt him.

Christoph reaches down, pulling Tanner to his feet.

Dex and the rest of the men crowd around, guns drawn.

Christoph kisses Tanner on the check, then steps away.

Tanner looking for a place to run to, but he's surrounded.

Dex and the men firing --

Music drowning out all sound.

Strobe lights carving quick bursts of images.

Laser fire slamming through Tanner --

Hit from all sides.  Again and again --

His eyes straining to hold on to life.

Muzzle flashes.  More shots.  Tanner's body twisting.

Music screaming down from the heavens.

Lasers ripping through his body.

Eyes finally going blank as he crumples to the floor.

Christoph motions to Dex.

                         CHRISTOPH
          His access card.

Dex bends down for it, but suddenly freezes --

There's no blood.

Not one single drop.

Dex whips his eyes up to Christoph in stunned
realization --

                         DEX
          Son-of-a-bitch digitized himself!

But Christoph's no longer there --

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  NIGHT CITY - NEXUS CENTER - CONTINUOUS

The real Tanner stands on the catwalk, plugging his access
card into the core program panel.

Data swirls across the screen.  Several long beats.

                         DISEMBODIED VOICE (FROM PROGRAM)
          Access approved.

Tanner begins punching in the eject command.

Codes streaking down the screen.

He suddenly stops, grabs his laser and whirls.

A person in the shadows.

Tanner is about to shoot when the person steps forward.

It's Katie.  Standing very still.  Watching him.

His gun aimed at her.

                         KATIE
          You have to do this?

He slowly lowers the weapon.

                         KATIE
          Someone you have to get back to?

                         TANNER
          No.

She nods, her eyes aching.  She steps toward him,
struggling for the words.

                         KATIE
          I asked Christoph to take it out of
          my memory.

Data smearing down the program screen, reflected off her
face.

                         KATIE
          But he wouldn't.

Her voice is suddenly very small and vulnerable.

                         KATIE
          So every single time I close my eyes
          it's there.  All of it.

Searching his face.  Afraid of the answer.

                         KATIE
          You?

Long beat.  The words crawling from his throat.

                         TANNER
          I remember.

She slowly reaches out.  Touching his face.  So familiar.

                         KATIE
          Isn't it better than whatever you
          have waiting for you up there?

He doesn't answer, his body suddenly shaking.  A tortured
silence.

Her lips reaching for his.

Christoph materializing on the catwalk --

Rushing for Tanner.  Speed of a Demon --

Tanner no longer thinking, merely reacting, spinning and
slamming in the last of the eject command --

                         CHRISTOPH
          NO --

But it's too late.

The god-awful noise, quickly getting louder and louder.

The sound of the end.

The walls disappearing.

Katie's eyes locked on Tanner, trying hard to be brave,
but it finds a way out of her mouth.

                         KATIE
          What happens to me --

He wishes he knew...


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STREETS

The moon and stars fade away.

Then the buildings.  Only the people left.

The LIGHT screaming for them.  Everyone it touches,
blasted into emptiness.

There is no escape from the light, it finds everybody.


INT.  NEXUS CENTER - CONTINUOUS

The light explodes through.

It touches Christoph first, ripping him into darkness.

Then Katie.

Then Tanner --


INT.  THE NET - DARKNESS

For a still heartbeat, Katie's face is visible --

Before it smears into the silent blackness of the net
as --

Tanner is hurled into the darkness, spinning toward the
blink of cold colors.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  MANHATTAN - GLOOMY AFTERNOON

The rain hasn't let up.  Blanketing the city in wet
darkness.


INT.  INTERFACE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Tanner's eyes fighting open.

The room is full of shadows.  Very eerie.

The sound of rain slamming against windows.

Tanner forces himself to sit.

The shadows come into focus.

They are empty interface chairs.  Tanner is alone.  He
reaches down, ejecting the mini-disk from the chair.


EXT.  HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Tanner uses the wall for balance as he pushes himself down
the hallway.


INT.  ELEVATOR - MOMENTS LATER

He hits the button for the top floor.  His eyes starting
to clear as the rage burns through the fog.


INT.  HALDEN'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

The room is dark.

Halden is behind his desk, staring out the window at the
storm.

The faintest of sounds.  Halden doesn't look surprised.

Tanner is in the doorway.  Dead silence.

Halden's face erupts in one continual grin.

                         HALDEN
          There was never a doubt, buddy!

Tanner steps into the office, slamming shut the door
behind him.

Halden keeps that grin plastered on his lips.

                         HALDEN
          Tanner comes through!

Tanner heads straight for him.  Smell of violence.

Still smiling, Halden's on his feet.  A laser trained on
Tanner.

                         HALDEN
          I just need the disk back, then we
          can put this whole thing behind
          us --

Tanner rips away the weapon with savage speed, then grabs
Halden by the wind-pipe and slams him back against the
wall.

                         TANNER
          She was real!

Halden trying to say something, but all that comes out is
some awful garbled noise.

                         TANNER
          You son-of-a-bitch!

Halden's face turning weird shades of red.  Then touches
of blue.  Eyes going slack.

Tanner finally lets go.  Halden collapses, hacking for
air.  A while to suck in enough to get out words.

                         HALDEN
          What did he tell you?

                         TANNER
          The truth.

                         HALDEN
                  (shakes his head)
          Not his style.

                         TANNER
          Katie was digitized.

Halden nods.  Tanner stares down at him.

                         TANNER
          Then you had her killed.

                         HALDEN
          Why would I do that?

                         TANNER
          To hide the evidence.

Halden climbs to his feet, struggling to regain some
semblance of authority.

                         HALDEN
          We drugged her.  So she wouldn't
          remember.

                         TANNER
          Try harder.

                         HALDEN
          There was no need to kill her.

                         TANNER
          Then where is she?

                         HALDEN
          Come on Tanner, think this through.

Tanner levels the laser on him.

                         HALDEN
          She has no memory of it.  She won't
          know who you are.

Tanner's face tightens.

                         TANNER
          Last time I ask.  Where is she?

Halden stares at Tanner.  Tanner will pull the trigger.
Halden blurts --

                         HALDEN
          An interface attendant.

                         TANNER
          Where?

                         HALDEN
          Times Square.

Tanner nods, then fires the laser, again and again into --

The window.  Blows out the glass.  Tanner hurls the gun
out into the storm.


EXT.  HALLWAY

Tanner hurries for the elevator.  Halden charging after
him.

                         HALDEN
          One last piece of business.

Tanner doesn't stop.  Elevator doors opening.

                         HALDEN
          Need the disk back!

                         TANNER
          Insurance.

                         HALDEN
          Insurance?

                         TANNER
                  (holds up the disk)
          If she's alive, you get it back.

He zips the disk into his jacket pocket as he steps
into --


INT.  ELEVATOR

Tanner jabs at the button.  The doors sliding shut.

Last thing Tanner sees is Halden's smiling face.

                         HALDEN
          Don't forget, Tanner.
                  (amused)
          She won't know who the hell you
          are --

Door close.  Tanner is alone.  Halden's words echoing
around him.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - MOMENTS LATER

A solid sheet of rain drenching the world.


EXT.  TIMES SQUARE - THAT DAY

The rain seems even worse, pounding the neon-strobed hell
hole.

It's a mob scene outside of the VSI Interface Center.
Aftermath of the system being ejected.

Tanner slices through the crowd, fighting his way inside.


INT.  VSI INTERFACE STATION

A small handful of overwhelmed VSI employees passing out
credit vouchers to a crush of angry customers.

Tanner moves through the crowd, searching, but not
finding.

Working his way to the center, looking everywhere, and
finally --

Katie.

In the back corner.  Managing to keep a professional calm
as she hands out vouchers.

Tanner is so close now he could touch her.  She turns to
him.  Waiting for something.  Then finally...

                         KATIE
          I'm sorry sir, we need your debit
          card before we can issue a
          credit --

                         TANNER
                  (quiet intensity)
          -- Katie.

His eyes burning into her's.  She looks at him, confused.

                         KATIE
          Do I know you?

Long beat.  Truth tearing at him.  Finally...

                         TANNER
          Lance Stanworth.  His father's
          station wagon and sixteen year-old
          promises.

She tenses, studying his face.

                         KATIE
          You went to my high-school?

                         TANNER
          No.

                         KATIE
          Then how do you know about --

                         TANNER
          -- You told me.

                         KATIE
          What are you talking about?

The patrons thrusting debit cards in her face.  He
practically has to yell to be heard.

                         TANNER
          Your mother told you your father
          died in a car crash.
                  (beat)
          Wasn't until you left for college
          that your uncle finally told you the
          truth.

She's staring at him.  No longer noticing anyone else.

                         TANNER
          Most nights you wake up crying.
          Never knowing why.

                         KATIE
          Who are you?!

He motions toward the back.  Away from the people.


INT.  BACK OF THE BUILDING - MOMENTS LATER

Katie and Tanner stand alone in the open doorway.
Outside, the storm smothers the empty alley.

                         TANNER
          We worked together on the inside.
          You were on my programming team --

                         KATIE
          -- The inside?

                         TANNER
          Night City.

She stares at him like he's crazy.

                         KATIE
          I've never been inside.

He looks at her.

                         KATIE
          My synapses wouldn't connect.  They
          say it happens with some people.

A still silence as he's suddenly not sure he should tell
her.

                         KATIE
          What?

He eyes the ground.  Rivulets of light reflected off the
black water.

Her voice pounds into him.  Needs to know.

                         KATIE
          Tell me --

He grabs her arm, pulling her out into --


INT.  BACK ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

Dark storm battering them as he leads her into --


INT.  KINKO'S - CONTINUOUS

Antiseptic light drips down onto the newest
telecommunications toys.  Salaried men and women crowd the
terminals.

Tanner leads Katie to the back.  Old fashioned color Xerox
machine in the corner.  He grabs a price list.

                         TANNER
          They took you.

Slams the paper into the machine.  Punches the button.
Machine kicks out the Xerox.

                         TANNER
          And made a copy.

Holds up the two pieces of paper, side by side.

                         TANNER
          Identical.  One's you.  One's
          digital.

                         KATIE
          That's not possible.  No one can do
          that.

                         TANNER
          Corporation can.

This hangs there.  Katie fighting back believing.

                         TANNER
          That's why they told you you can't
          go inside.
                  (beat)
          They can't have you running into
          her.

                         KATIE
          Her?

He holds up the Xerox.

                         TANNER
          You.

Katie stares at it, trembling, barely holding on.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  BAR - MOMENT LATER

Tanner and Katie in the back.  She's still struggling to
understand.

                         KATIE
          You said we were on the same
          programming team.

                         TANNER
          Yes.

                         KATIE
                  (shakes her head)
          But I don't know anything about
          programming.

                         TANNER
          Once they digitized you, they added
          it.

She stares at him.

                         KATIE
          Why?

                         TANNER
          It was a test.

                         KATIE
          For what?

Tanner's face darkens.  Working hard to stay emotionless.

                         TANNER
          To see how long it would take for me
          to realize.

                         KATIE
          Realize?

                         TANNER
                  (quiet)
          You weren't real.

She's still staring at him.

                         KATIE
          And how long did it take you?

His voice is suddenly very small.

                         TANNER
          They had to tell me.

He's suddenly no longer looking at her.  But her eyes
remain frozen on him.  Starting to get it.

                         KATIE
          It was more than work, wasn't it?

A long beat before he finally forces himself to meet her
stare.

                         KATIE
          And it meant something.

                         TANNER
                  (barely audible)
          Yes.

She nods, her eyes aching.

                         KATIE
          I don't know what that's like.

He's looking at her.  Like he's done so many times.  Then
he kisses her.

She pulls away.  Shaking, trying to say something, but it
won't come out, so she kisses him back.

A terrified connection.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  TANNER'S WAREHOUSE LOFT - A LITTLE LATER

Muted light sifts through the windows.

The door slides open.  Tanner and Katie silently enter.

Her mouth on his as she tugs at his jacket.  It falls to
the floor.

                         KATIE
          Candles.  Get candles.

She waits as he heads into --


INT.  KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Tears apart the cupboards.  Finds several mismatched
candles.  Grabs matches, returning to --


INT.  HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

It's empty.  His coat has been picked up and neatly hung
on the hook.  He moves into --


INT.  BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Katie's sitting on the bed, staring at him with trembling
eyes.

                         KATIE
          Pretend I'm her.  We're inside.
                  (quietly)
          Show me what it was like.

Sound of rain slamming into the window.  He lights the
candles, throwing wicked shadows across the room.

He turns to the bed looking down at her.

Flicker of emotion.  So much held back.

Falls down on top of her.  Both fully clothed.  His mouth
tracing the lines of her neck.  Her breaths coming faster.

His hands roaming her body.  Raw passion.

She flips him over, climbing on top.  Kissing him.
Hungry.  But suddenly stopping.

Staring at him in troubled silence.

                         TANNER
          What?

                         KATIE
          Way you kiss me.

SOUND of the rain drilling the metal walls.

                         KATIE
          Like you've done it so many times.

He stares up at her, not sure how to answer.

Her voice wrapped in darkness.

                         KATIE
          I wasn't with you.

                         TANNER
          I know.

                         KATIE
          But you were with me.

                         TANNER
          Not you.  A copy.

                         KATIE
          What's the difference?

The rain drumming against the windows.

A jet-copter screams by overhead.

He's like a statue, watching her.

Something burns deep in her eyes.

Moves her mouth down to his.

He's not breathing.  Just staring at her.

She kisses him.  He erupts --

Throws her off of him --

Blurring into --


INT.  KITCHEN

Claws through the drawer for a knife.


INT.  BEDROOM

He returns to the bed.  She sees the knife in his hands.

                         KATIE
          What the hell's going on --

He grabs her arm.  Her eyes now locked on his.

                         KATIE
          You sure you want to do this?

He raises the knife.

                         KATIE
          Because this time can be different.
                  (pleads)
          This time we can stay together --

The blade flashes down, piercing her flesh.

No blood.  Not one single drop.  She suddenly won't look
at him.


INT.  HALLWAY

He rushes to his jacket, unzips the pocket, reaches
inside.  It's empty.  No disk.

Whirls around.  Katie staring at him from the bedroom.

                         KATIE
          I'm sorry.

                         TANNER
          Sorry?!

                         KATIE
          There was no other choice.

He comes at her.  Eyes wild.  Deadly.

                         TANNER
          None of this was real!

Her voice now trembling.

                         KATIE
          I do love you.

She flickers.  Tears staining her eyes.

                         KATIE
                  (soft)
          More than I should.

Then she's no longer there.

Tanner is standing alone in the middle of the room.

Eyes pounding with rage.

He spins, punching through the window!

Hand bloodied, keeps punching, harder and harder, until
there's no more glass left.

But the rain doesn't come into the room.  Stopped by some
invisible barrier.

A primal scream ripping from his throat.

Taste of the beast.

He attacks the walls, clawing them down into darkness.

                         CHRISTOPH'S VOICE (O.S.)
          I couldn't let you eject the system.

Tanner whirls.  Christoph stands across the room.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Because I've seen the world you
          would have returned them to.

He steps toward Tanner, voice ripped with anguish.

                         CHRISTOPH
          And I have too much compassion for
          that.

Tanner slams his stare into him.

                         TANNER
          But this world doesn't last!

Christoph calmly meets Tanner's stare.

                         CHRISTOPH
          What if it could?

The question hangs there as the walls dissolve into
nothingness, plunging them into --


EXT.  PITCH BLACKNESS

Jazz music pierces the darkness.

Then a flicker of light, expanding out to --


EXT.  THE TERRACE - ROOF - CONTINUOUS

The party is gone.  Tanner and Christoph stand alone on
the roof, the lights of Night City spread out before them.

                         CHRISTOPH
          What if we take it out onto the net?

The question hangs there.  Tanner shakes his head,
couldn't have heard it right.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Unlimited energy out there.  Enough
          to run this world for all
          eternity --

                         TANNER
          -- But you'll never be able to get
          it through the maze.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Me?  Of course not.
                  (smiles)
          That's why you're here.

He locks eyes with Tanner.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Your maze.  You designed it.  You
          can lead us through it.

Terrified understanding beginning to flash through
Tanner's eyes.

                         CHRISTOPH
          He comes to deliver them from a land
          of affliction and bring them to a
          good land, a land flowing with milk
          and honey.

There is a sense of almost relief in Christoph's eyes.
The secret finally told.

                         CHRISTOPH
          With the energy from the net, we can
          program this world anyway we want.
                  (beams)
          Redwood forests.  Oceans.
          Mountains --

                         TANNER
          -- Two million people plugged-in
          here.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Yes.

Tanner is horrified at putting it together.

                         TANNER
          You can't let them go.

Christoph says nothing.  Tanner's eyes bore into him.

                         TANNER
          Until you're on the net where the
          corporation can't touch you, you
          can't open the system.  They'll
          eject it if you do.

                         CHRISTOPH
          One would assume so.

The fireworks show starts up over the carnival down below.

Tanner doesn't seem to notice, his eyes frozen on
Christoph.

                         TANNER
          But once the system touches the net,
          all links are severed.
                  (beat)
          Everybody dies.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Only up there in the dream they
          called life.

                         TANNER
          And down here --

Christoph holds up the access card.

                         CHRISTOPH
          -- Thanks to you, we can reconfigure
          the system to free up enough power
          to digitize everybody who is
          plugged-in.  Every last soul...
                  (intense)
          And bring them to a better world.

Tanner's eyes glow with fury.

                         TANNER
          And if I refuse?

Christoph calmly meets Tanner's stare.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Then the system crashes.
                  (matter-of-fact)
          And you have let two million people
          die.

He fades away.  Leaving Tanner standing alone on the roof.


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STREET - CONTINUOUS

The streets are crowded with people heading in and out of
bars.

The fireworks from the carnival raining down overhead.

Nobody noticing the small clouds creeping in over the
horizon.


EXT.  THE TERRACE - ROOF - CONTINUOUS

Tanner stares out at the slowly approaching clouds.

Tormented realization tearing at his face.


EXT.  GLASS ELEVATOR - MOMENTS LATER

Tanner rides the elevator down the side of the building.

He watches through the window as more clouds drift
overhead.

The elevator glides to a stop, depositing Tanner out
onto --


EXT.  STREET - CONTINUOUS

He heads out into the middle of the street.

Huge explosions tear apart the darkness as the fireworks
boom across the sky.

In the quick bursts of light Tanner can see the clouds are
getting darker and darker.

The air filled with the screams of people riding the
digital roller coaster.

The first drops of rain beginning to swirl lazily to the
ground.

People stopping what they're doing and staring up into the
sky.  Stunned that it's actually raining.

Tanner instinctively pushing through the crowd, yelling --

                         TANNER
          Get inside!  Get back inside!

But no one paying him any attention.

The rain coming down harder now.

More and more people pouring out onto the streets as word
begins to circulate that it's raining.


INT.  NEXUS CENTER - CONTINUOUS

Dex and Christoph stand silently in front of a program
panel, watching the monitor across the room which shows --


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STREETS - CONTINUOUS

Tanner is still fighting his way through the crowd.

Up above, the fireworks explode in the rain, creating
prisms of flickering color.

Tanner suddenly freezes.  Sees --

Katie across the street.  She is watching him.  Tears in
her eyes.

And then it happens.

A horrific SOUND roars across the sky.

Hard to tell if it's thunder or laughter, as --

The clouds unleash their rage.

The storm ripping apart the night.  Rain as thick as
steel.

Knocking people to their knees.  Struggling to stand.

And it keeps coming.  Slamming down harder and harder.
Threatening to wash the whole damn city away.


INT.  NEXUS CENTER - CONTINUOUS

Christoph pulls his eyes away from the monitor.

A long beat, then he silently nods to Dex, who punches the
commands into the program panel.

Christoph keeps his stare away from the monitor, not
wanting to watch as --


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STREETS - CONTINUOUS

The savage rain storm continues as a small burst of fire
falls from the sky.

The flames swirl through the rain.

Tanner, like the crowds all around him, is pinned to the
ground by the crush of water.

The balls of flames burn right through him --

His body convulsing on the ground in anguished pain --

He is probably screaming, but it would be in vain as the
storm drowns out all noise --

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  CHICAGO STREET - DAWN

A peaceful street in the downtown area, dominated by VSI's
Chicago Public Interface Center.


INT.  CHICAGO INTERFACE CENTER - CONTINUOUS

Rows and rows of people strapped unconscious to interface
seats.

An alarm pierces the room.

A Medical Technician rushes to the sound, sweeping a
curtain around the person.  Takes one look down at the
person, and --

                         MEDICAL TECHNICIAN
                  (yelling)
          I need help here!

The bulking man in the interface seat is in the throes of
violent spasms, his eyes thrust dangerously back in his
head.

Then mercifully, it's over.  He flatlines.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STREET - CONTINUOUS

Tanner struggles to his feet, the rain crashing down on
him.

He fights his way over to Katie --

Flames now falling from every square inch of sky.

A solid blanket of death floating down onto the city.

Tanner locks eyes with Katie, screaming as loud as he
can --

                         TANNER
          Christoph as God!

It is impossible to tell if she can hear him over the
howling tempest.

But there is the slightest shift in her face.  Some
tortured realization.

Tanner turns back into the street.

The flames drifting down through the rain.  Only
heartbeats away from hitting the people.

Tanner stares straight up into the heavens, screaming --

                         TANNER
          Enough!  They will not die --


INT.  NEXUS - CONTINUOUS

Relief spills through Christoph's face as he turns to the
program panel and throws in the commands for --


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STREETS

The flames disappear.  Just like that.

Then the storm stops.

A silent stillness.

The crowds in the street still shaking, not yet willing to
believe it's really over.

The first glint of light as the night fades.

For the first time ever, the sun rises over the Night
City.  Dawn in the new world.

Tanner and Katie flicker, then fade away.


INT.  NEXUS CENTER - CONTINUOUS

Tanner and Katie materialize on the --

FIFTH FLOOR CATWALK

They are flanked by Christoph and Dex, along with an army
of armed digital employees.

Katie silently stares at Tanner.  Something being
communicated.

Christoph smiles at Tanner.

                         CHRISTOPH
          And Moses said, 'Who am I, that I
          should lead them to the Promise
          Land?'

Tanner turns and stares at him in steely silence.

                         CHRISTOPH
          Nine minutes before the system
          crashes.

Tanner's eyes reflexively spin down the catwalk toward the
core program.

Christoph holds up the access card --

                         CHRISTOPH
          You don't have access to it.  You
          can't eject.
                  (dead serious)
          So the only way everybody lives is
          out on the net.

Tanner catches a quick glimpse of Katie as she slips
through the guards and down the stairs.

Dex motions to the program panel in front of Tanner.

                         DEX
          This program interface will get you
          into the maze.

The longest beat.  Then Tanner nods.

FOURTH FLOOR CATWALK

Katie rushes to a program panel and throws it open,
punching in commands.  Data whips across the screen.

FIFTH FLOOR CATWALK

Christoph hands the access card to Dex who in turn slides
it into the program panel in front of Tanner.

Several long beats, then the program buzzes.

                         DISEMBODIED VOICE (FROM PROGRAM)
          Access approved.

Dex pulls out the card as Tanner calls out --

                         TANNER
          Now --

His hands rocket out with blurring speed.  One hand
grabbing the card as the other grasps onto the program
panel --

FOURTH FLOOR CATWALK

Katie slams in the last of the commands --

FIFTH FLOOR CATWALK

The catwalk flickers, then disappears.

Christoph, Dex, and the digital employees plunging down
through thin air.

Tanner hanging onto the panel --

FOURTH FLOOR CATWALK

Katie punches in more commands and now --

FIFTH FLOOR CATWALK

The catwalk reappears.

GROUND FLOOR

Christoph, Dex, and the men crash hard to the ground.

FIFTH FLOOR CATWALK

Tanner races down the catwalk to a program panel.  He
throws in the access card.

GROUND FLOOR

Christoph is the first one to his feet.  His eyes spin up
to Tanner on the catwalk.

                         CHRISTOPH
                  (bellows)
          KILL HIM --

The army of digital guards springing to their feet, lasers
drawn.

FIFTH FLOOR CATWALK

Tanner slams in the last of the commands, causing --

A LASER CANNON to materialize next to him.

STAIRS

The guards charging for Tanner.  There's too many of them.
He'll never kill them all.

FIFTH FLOOR CATWALK

Tanner aims the cannon down onto the second floor and
FIRES --

A program explodes.  The program that controls the
waiters.

The guards who are reprogrammed waiters disappear.

Tanner fires into another program.

The guards who are reprogrammed busboys disappear.

Tanner keeps firing.  Destroying the employee programs.


INT.  STAIRS

The last of the guards flicker, then are gone.

Dex is the only one left on the stairs as he races up to
the catwalk.


INT.  GROUND FLOOR

Christoph stares up as Tanner rips open the core program
and throws in the access card.

FIFTH FLOOR CATWALK

Data whips across the screen, reflecting off Tanner's
face.

Tanner suddenly spins.

Dex is up on the catwalk, laser trained on Tanner.

Tanner reaches for his gun, but he is too late.

The HISSING of a laser.

Small neat hole burned through Dex's forehead.

He crumples to the ground, bloodless face frozen in death.

Tanner whirls around.  Katie stands behind him, laser in
hand.  She is staring at Dex's body.  First time she has
killed.

A buzzing breaks the silence --

                         DISEMBODIED VOICE (FROM PROGRAM)
          Access approved --

GROUND FLOOR

Christoph yells up at Tanner --

                         CHRISTOPH
          One thing you need to know!
                  (beat)
          There is no Katie out there!
                  (intense)
          Halden really did have her killed.
                  (explains)
          That's why the digital one is
          allowed to stay in here --

CATWALK

Christoph's warning echoing around Tanner and Katie.

She slowly lowers the gun, her eyes shaking as she looks
up at Tanner.

An anguished silence, broken by Christoph's yelling --

                         CHRISTOPH'S VOICE (O.S.)
          You hear me, Tanner?!  She only
          lives in here!

Katie stares at Tanner, struggling for the words, but they
won't come.

So she leans over and kisses him.  Both of their bodies
trembling.

                         KATIE
                  (tortured whisper)
          I'm already dead...

Her eyes wet, she kisses him again, knowing it will be the
last time.

He forces himself to turn back to the program panel,
slamming in the eject sequence.

Christoph materializes on the catwalk --

                         CHRISTOPH
          NO --

He hurls Tanner away from the program panel.  Only he's
too late --

That god-awful noise.  Louder and louder.

Christoph's face wracked with realization.  Last thing he
will do is turn to Tanner --

                         CHRISTOPH
          Life is too precious --

The Nexus Center's walls fade away --


EXT.  NIGHT CITY - STREETS - CONTINUOUS

The buildings are all gone.

The LIGHT sweeps down for the people --


INT.  NEXUS CENTER - CONTINUOUS

Katie's eyes locked on Tanner.

The light explodes through, ripping them all into
nothingness --


INT.  THE NET - DARKNESS

Tanner is thrown out into the darkness, spinning
helplessly through the blackness.

The faintest of light.  Growing brighter and brighter,
as --

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - INTERFACE ROOM

Tanner's eyes flutter open, struggling for focus.

Several blurry shapes.  Tanner pushes himself to sit.

The shapes are people.  Halden's bodyguards.  One of them
grabs the disk from the chair's interface.

                         TANNER
          I need to see Halden --

                         WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
          -- I'm sorry.

Tanner turns.  It is EMMA.  She looks tortured by what she
must do.

                         EMMA
          He's not taking visitors.

She motions to the bodyguards, who hustle Tanner to his
feet and out the door.


EXT.  STREET - MOMENTS LATER

The rain has slowed to a drizzle.  A mud gray day.

Emma wishes she didn't have to be the one who had to do
this.

                         EMMA
          F.C.O. regulations require all
          system providers to test their
          emergency eject sequence at least
          once a year.
                  (quietly)
          Our records will show that's exactly
          what transpired.

Before Tanner can respond, she disappears back inside.

The sidewalk's crowded, people brushing against Tanner,
but he stands there not moving, staring up at the top of
the building.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI BUILDING - HALDEN'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Halden sits behind his desk staring out the window.

Emma heads inside, laying the disk on the desk.

Halden's eyes remain silently out the window.

Emma leaves, shutting the door behind her.

Halden looks down at the disk.  Smallest flicker of guilt.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  HELL'S KITCHEN - WAREHOUSE - THAT DAY

A beat-up taxi drops Tanner out front.


INT.  TANNER'S LOFT - CONTINUOUS

The place is dark.  Tanner hits the switch.

The monitor snaps alive, bathing the room in eerie blue
light.

                         TANNER
          Display program received from
          uplink.

Clicking sound as the program drips down the screen.

                         TANNER
          Program name?

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
          Resurrection.

Tanner nods, making himself a drink.

                         TANNER
          Connect to public access.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
                  (buzzes)
          Access established.

                         TANNER
          Select uplink for Federal
          Communications Office.  Department
          of Enforcement.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
                  (beat)
          Uplink selected.

Tanner settles into a chair, taking a hit of his drink.

                         TANNER
          Uplink Resurrection program.

Tanner sits there in the darkness listening to the
machines talking to each other.

                         SYNTHETIC VOICE
                  (buzzes)
          Uplink received.

He nods, a flutter of satisfaction.

A NOISE from the bedroom.  Sounds like a woman's voice
calling out for him.

He downs the drink, grabbing his gun and moving into --


INT.  BEDROOM

It is empty.  The noise is just the wind howling against
the window.

He stares at the bed.  Several long beats.  He doesn't
move.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  VSI TIMES SQUARE - INTERFACE CENTER - THAT DAY

The aftermath of the system being ejected.

VSI interface attendants passing out credit vouchers as
fast as they can to the crush of complaining customers.

Tanner squeezes his way inside.

His eyes spinning to the back toward Katie, but she's not
there.

He moves through the crowd trying to find her.  Finally
makes his way to the front desk.

                         TANNER
          I'm looking for Katie Hall.

The SECURITY GUARD at the desk looks at him like he's
crazy.

                         SECURITY GUARD
          You expect me to find someone in
          this crowd --

                         TANNER
          -- Not a customer.  An employee.

                         SECURITY GUARD
                  (shakes his head)
          No Katie works here.

                         TANNER
          Are you sure?

                         SECURITY GUARD
          I've been here since we opened.
          Never been a Katie.

Long beat.  Realization ripping through Tanner.

He stands there frozen for several dark moments.  Then
finally turns and heads out the door.

Almost outside when he hears the voice.

He spins.

Katie.

In the back, passing out vouchers.  But then the crowd
shifts, blocking his view.

He cuts a path to her, his eyes tense, was he imagining
her?

But he's now standing right next to her.  Can feel her
breath.

                         KATIE
          Can I please have your debit card.

He's staring at her.  Fierce intensity.

                         KATIE
          Sir, your debit --

He looks down at her name tag.  It reads 'Katherine'.  He
nods, of course.

                         TANNER
          They changed your name.

                         KATHERINE
          Who did?

He stares at her, needs to know.  He reaches out with
lightning speed and plucks off her name tag.

Before she can react, he grabs her arm, nicking it with
the pin from the name tag.

She spins, yelling to the security guard --

                         KATHERINE
          FRANK --

The security guard, Frank, hurries over.

Tanner watches her arm.  Thin ribbon of blood rising to
the cut.  Flicker of relief shudders through him.

He stares her straight in the eye --

                         TANNER
          You grew up in Vermont.

She stays silent, not wanting to say anything that'll set
this guy off.

                         TANNER
          When you were six, your father went
          out to buy a newspaper and never
          came back.
                  (beat)
          Your mother lied, told you he was
          killed in a car accident --

Frank is there now, wrenching Tanner's hands back,
twisting them behind his back.

Tanner doesn't resist, his eyes locked on Katherine --

                         TANNER
          You have trouble remembering your
          dreams.
                  (beat)
          But there's one you always have.

She's staring at him.

                         TANNER
          A baby's crying.  But no one comes
          to help it.  So it keeps crying.
          All night long --

Frank cuffs Tanner, then drags him away.

Tanner's eyes struggling for Katie's face, but it's
swallowed up by the crowd.


EXT.  BACK ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

Tanner is uncuffed and hurled out into the alley.

The sound of the door slamming shut behind him, dead bolts
sliding into place.

A jet-copter screams by overhead.

An old man, face stained with illness, lays on a bed of
newspaper next to Tanner.

Sounds of the real world filtering down the alley.  A
family arguing.  Groups of friends laughing.  Someone
screaming.

Tanner slowly turns around.

Katherine is in the doorway, watching him.

Sunlight pierces through the clouds.

She tries to keep her voice from trembling.

                         KATHERINE
          Who are you?...

Tanner stares at her, does something he hasn't done in a
long time.  He smiles.

                                            FADE OUT.

                         THE END




