

				    PLASTIC MAN

					    by

			   Larry and Andy Wachowski

				   March 17, 1995

FADE IN:

INT.  CAGE

We are a lab mouse.

Our world is a cage; the laboratory beyond the wire mesh
has the sprawling limitlessness of a universe with dark
endless voids and immense technological instruments
gleaming with celestial light.

We can hear a WOMAN'S VOICE though we can't understand
what she is saying.

There are several other lab mice in our cage and as the
voice gets closer there is sense of mounting apprehension.

We fight the other mice, pushing into the far corner.

Suddenly the world beyond the mesh is eclipsed by the
WOMAN.  If we were not a mouse, we might think she was
beautiful.

She opens the cage and a panic erupts.  There is nowhere
to hide as her hand reaches in and TAKES HOLD of us.

The cage seems to fall away as she LIFTS us.

We can barely hear her voice over the blood pounding in
our ears.

She TURNS us OVER and we see an enormous hypodermic needle
that she uses to inject us with a sapphire-blue fluid.

We are then placed in a small air-tight tank.  There is a
small Plexiglas window and several tiny holes.  After a
moment we hear the HISS of VALVES OPENING.

A milky fluid suddenly floods the chamber and we begin to
feel nauseous, our VISION BLURRING and DISTORTING.

As quickly as the fluid filled the tank it now drains.

The god-like hand again LIFTS us from the tank but
something is wrong because --

We SLIP THROUGH her fingers.

The GROUND RUSHES UP at us but when we hit --

We BOUNCE.  And BOUNCE.

FLIP FLOPPING, the bounces coming quicker and quicker,
LOWER and LOWER until we are RACING ACROSS the floor.
Free!

We see the woman in her white lab coat screaming at her
assistant as they try to corral us.

We DODGE, ZIPPING ACROSS the floor, looking for a way out
when we see, set in the tile floor, a drain.

The WORLD SWIRLS WITH us as we DASH TOWARDS it, the dark
holes widening as we DIVE at them, PLUNGING HEADLONG INTO
BLACKNESS --

TUMBLING DOWN the rabbit hole.

After a long silent moment, we hear a MAN SNEEZE.

INT.  DIME STORE

The DARKNESS BECOMES a curtain that is yanked open as the
same MAN steps out talking to himself.

					MAN
		Hi, Susan... no.  Hi, Susie...

We realize he has just stepped out of a photo booth.

We do not see his face, MOVING WITH him, staying waist
high as he waits for the photo strip.

					MAN
		Howdee, Susan... no... Hello there,
		Doctor Bright.  No no no.  Hello,
		Susan...

A smoldering octave lower.

					MAN
		Hello, Susan...

The green light flashes and the strip of black and white
pictures drops into the gate.

We DESCEND PAST each picture of the man's face, framed
tightly as if each was a panel in a comic book.

Each face seems like someone who has a secret or who is
trying to look very smart.

Except for the last one which looks like he was about to
sneeze.

The man grabs the strip.

EXT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S BROWNSTONE - MORNING

An upscale neighborhood:  Brownstones and coffee houses.

Dr. Susan Bright (WOMAN) steps out of her door.  She is
the scientist that we saw in the OPENING SCENE.

She is in a hurry, juggling a briefcase, an armful of
books, a cup of coffee and her keys as she heads for her
car.

She is bent to the car door as we GLIDE UP BEHIND her.

					MAN
		Hello, Susan.

The voice hits her like the Hymlich maneuver.

					SUSAN
		Oh my God...

					MAN
		What god would that be?

She turns around and we see the man; Daniel "Eel" O'Brien.
Black leather activist.  We cannot tell if he is dangerous
or just trying to look dangerous.

					SUSAN
		Daniel...

					O'BRIEN (MAN)
		What?  No kiss?  Not even for old
		times sake?

She forces a smile and gives him a hug.

His hand slips into her lab coat pocket and then away.

					SUSAN
		When did you...?

					O'BRIEN
		Been out for six months now.

					SUSAN
		Really?  What have you been doing?

					O'BRIEN
		You know, this and that.

She smiles.

					SUSAN
		Still chasing litterbugs?

His grin has an edge to it.

					O'BRIEN
		Somebody has to.

					SUSAN
		Same old Daniel.

					O'BRIEN
		Oh no.  Not by a long shot.  I may
		look like the old Daniel O'Brien,
		but on the inside, nothing is the
		same.

					SUSAN
		Is that so?

					O'BRIEN
		Oh yeah.  See, Susie, a man doesn't
		do the hard time and just pick up
		where he left off.  Oh no.  The big
		house does things to a man.

					SUSAN
		The big house?

					O'BRIEN
		The big house.

					SUSAN
		Jesus, Daniel.  It wasn't Ryker's
		Island.  It was work camp for white
		collar criminals.

					O'BRIEN
		A cage by any other name would still
		smell like sweaty ugly men.

Sounds like the same O'Brien to her.

					O'BRIEN
		You know, I've been following your
		work at Argon Labs.

Her smile disappears.

					O'BRIEN
		I've been thinking about you a lot
		all these years, locked up in my
		cell.  I'd tear through every issue
		of the Midwest Science Journal
		looking for your latest findings,
		watching as you slowly worked your
		polymerization experiments up
		through single celled organisms to
		that holiest of holies, the fruit
		fly.  Exciting stuff.  I got to tell
		you, it really kept me going.

					SUSAN
		I guess I should be flattered.

					O'BRIEN
		I remember you said, nanotechnology
		was going to change the world.

					SUSAN
		It already is.

					O'BRIEN
		I've read they're using it to repair
		cancer cells.

					SUSAN
		And for cleaning up oil spills.

					O'BRIEN
		Right.  You predicted it.

He moves closer, eyes smoldering.

					O'BRIEN
		Do you ever wonder what happened to
		us, Susie?

					SUSAN
		It was a long time ago, Daniel.  We
		were young, different people,
		heading in different directions.
		That's all.

She backs away.

					O'BRIEN
		Yeah.

					SUSAN
		Well, it was good to see you,
		Daniel, but I have to be going.

					O'BRIEN
		Sure.  Can I ask you one more thing?
		You haven't published anything in a
		while.  How come?

She shrugs, getting into her car.

					SUSAN
		Nothing really worthwhile.

					O'BRIEN
		That's what I thought.

She closes the door.

					O'BRIEN
		Be seeing you.

She watches him turn and walk away in the rearview mirror.
She GUNS her car's ENGINE and the SOUND ROLLS INTO --

The ROAR of SMOKESTACKS, gaseous flames burning into boot-
black clouds.

EXT.  CALUMET CITY - DAY

An industrial wasteland; towering smokestacks and
warehouses of corrugated steel, factories and chemical
plants built around a small lake that shimmers with an
oily iridescent sheen while its shores churn a frothy
green bile.

One of the more distinct buildings in this skyline of
black steel and blue-gas flame, is Argon Laboratories.

It is a heavily secured compound.  There are two oblong
buildings:  one is the main lab building, the other is a
chemical warehouse.

Where the two buildings are connected, a third structure
rises on a steel framed skeleton like a water tower.

This is Argon Tower and at the top of the two story
private manor, built beside a helicopter pad, is a
twinkling glass conservatory.

INT.  ARGON'S OFFICE

A pair of gleaming, red-patent leather stiletto-heeled
SHOES CLICK delicately across the floor.

					WOMAN
		Icarus?

We FOLLOW the high heels THROUGH the office until we see
the base of a statue and the name chiseled into stone;
"Icarus Argon".

We RISE UP the nine-heads-high, heroically proportioned
statue and see Icarus Argon as he once was; a single
halogen high-lights the massive David-like physique.

She crosses the sprawl of the office and everywhere are
mementos marking the milestones of Argon's life.  His face
beams on framed magazine covers; People's "Sexiest Man
Alive," and Time's "Man of the Year".  A 1989 Mr. Universe
trophy is almost lost in the thicket of awards.

The Woman calls to the wheelchair-bound figure slouching
behind a black, obelisk-like desk.

					WOMAN
		Icarus, I thought I would find you
		here.

She is Mrs. Poppy Argon, a stunning woman of cosmetic
perfection and a body that might have been surgically cut
from a comic book.

She designs her own dresses made from Argon rubber or PVC,
usually red to match her collection of high heeled shoes
and boots.

					POPPY (WOMAN)
		You never came to bed.

He says nothing.

					POPPY
		Have you been here all night?

She moves around him and we get our first look at the new
Icarus Argon.

					POPPY
		How are you feeling today?

He is an unwrapped mummy; brown flesh drapes over stringy
cords of muscle like a wet paper bag.  His eyes, hard
white marbles lined with red cracks, coldly stare up at
her.

					ARGON (MAN)
		I feel like I felt yesterday.

She feels his forehead.

					ARGON
		Like rotting meat.

					POPPY
		You're not rotting meat.

He lifts his arm.

					ARGON
		Oh no?  Smell this.

					POPPY
		Icarus, please, if you want me to
		give you a bath just say so.

					ARGON
		No.  I'm getting used to it.

She opens a manila folder, setting several sheets of paper
on a tray in front of him.

					POPPY
		Fine.  Now I need your signature on
		this today.

He snatches the pen from her and begins signing everything
she lays in front of him.

					ARGON
		What about Dr. Bright?

Poppy sighs.

					POPPY
		She's working as fast as she can,
		Icarus.  It will be ready soon.

					ARGON
		It's ready now, I know it is.

					POPPY
		She says it's not.

					ARGON
		She's lying.  She lost the first one
		on purpose.

					POPPY
		She did not.  The mouse ran down the
		drain.

					ARGON
		She let it escape because she wants
		me to die.

					POPPY
		Don't be a child, Icarus.  She is
		just another scientist and like all
		scientists, she doesn't care about
		anything outside the world of the
		laboratory.

She gathers her papers back into the folder.

					POPPY
		Right now she is still concerned
		about the unstable molecular waste
		generated by the first experiment.
		I am sure that when she solves that
		problem she will be ready for the
		second test.

She pats him on the head.

					POPPY
		Now you be a good boy today and take
		your medicine and Poppy will make
		you forget about everything tonight.

She blows him a kiss, wiggling her long red-nailed
fingers.

EXT.  MAIN GATE

Susan Bright's car rolls up to the main gate.  Inside her
car she is searching for her security card key.

The GUARD notices and steps out of the booth.  She rolls
down the window.

					GUARD
		Something wrong, Dr. Bright?

					SUSAN
		I can't find my key card.

					GUARD
		Not a problem.  Just let us know if
		it's lost and we'll make you a new
		one.

					SUSAN
		Thanks.

He returns to the booth and the gate arm waves up.

EXT.  ADMIRAL HOTEL - DAY

A poorly painted sign in the window reads:  "Transients
Welcome."

INT.  ADMIRAL HOTEL

CLOSE ON Susan Bright's Argon ID, as an x-acto knife
carefully cuts out the photo.

O'Brien is hunched over, working diligently.  The hotel
room behind him is the kind of place where "cheap" would
be the politically correct adjective.

There are piles of nondescript scientific journals and
reference texts everywhere.  The walls around him are
covered with clipped articles and we repeatedly glimpse
the words nanotechnology, molecular engineering,
assemblers and replicators.

Using a colored marker he colors in one of the serious-
looking black and white photos from the strip.

There are only twelve colors in the set of markers so the
result looks somewhere between Warhol and Turner-vision.

He compares it to the color photo of Susan.  Shrugs, good
enough.

INT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S LAB

Susan is not listening, her face as frozen as her picture,
her mind somewhere else.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Without the nanobot it appears there
		will be no way to stabilize the
		waste entirely.  Even at subzero
		temperatures it remains active.

DR. NIGEL NEBBLEMAN is Susan's assistant.  More nebbish
than man.

					NEBBLEMAN
		I wonder if there is a way we could
		catch that mouse.  Susan?  Susan, are
		you listening to me?

She blinks.

					SUSAN
		What?  Oh, I'm sorry, Nigel.  I was
		just thinking...

					NEBBLEMAN
		Aaabout...?

					SUSAN
		This morning.  I saw someone I
		haven't seen in a long time.

					NEBBLEMAN
		A man?

					SUSAN
		Yeah.  I knew him when I was still
		in school.

					NEBBLEMAN
		What did he want?

					SUSAN
		I'm not sure.  That's the funny
		thing about him.  He's the kind of
		guy that you never know what he
		wants or what he might do to get it.

EXT.  STREET

O'Brien is moving against the general flow of traffic on a
crowded street.

He notices a MAN in a business suit with a briefcase in
one hand, a white Styrofoam cup of coffee in the other.

The Man, apparently in a hurry, slugs down the last of the
coffee, crumbles the cup in his fist and without a second
thought, tosses the cup into the hedge.

					O'BRIEN
		Hey!

The suit walks right past him, oblivious to O'Brien's
outrage.

O'Brien looks back at the cup and then the Man.  A single
word hisses from his lips.

					O'BRIEN
		Litterbug.

He rushes to the hedge and seizes hold of the cup, then
whirls back, chasing after the bug.

					O'BRIEN
		Hey!  Hey, you!  Hey, litterbug!
		Mr. Litterbug!

He grabs the bug by the shoulder and spins him around.

					O'BRIEN
		Excuse me, but I believe you dropped
		this.

The Litterbug, a very large litterbug, laughs.

					LITTERBUG (MAN)
		Yeah?  So what?

					O'BRIEN
		So what?  So what?  For starters,
		how about littering is a crime.

					LITTERBUG
		Haw-haw!  Why don't you run off and
		find a cop and I'll wait right here.

					O'BRIEN
		Why don't you just put this in your
		pocket so when you see a garbage can
		you can put it where it belongs.

					LITTERBUG
		Why don't you just shove it up your
		ass!  Haw-haw!

The Litterbug starts walking away, but O'Brien continues
to dog him.

					O'BRIEN
		What is it with you litterbugs?  Is
		it a territorial thing, marking your
		turf with your garbage?

					LITTERBUG
		You better quit pushing me, pal.

					O'BRIEN
		I just want to know what goes on in
		the mind of a litterbug.  What
		chemical is secreted by your smooth
		brain that tells you, 'It's okay,
		just chuck it'?

					LITTERBUG
		Look, asshole, I don't got time for
		this.  If you got a problem, you
		better take care of it yourself.

					O'BRIEN
		Oh no, no, no.  No can do.  You
		enjoyed a tasty beverage and thus
		this receptacle becomes your
		responsibility and I don't care if
		it's a Styrofoam cup or the Exxon
		Valdez!  You've got to learn to take
		responsibility!

					LITTERBUG
		What are you going to do?  Make me
		throw it out?

					O'BRIEN
		I'll do whatever I have to do.

Fists clench as they eye one another up and down until the
Litterbug laughs again.

					LITTERBUG
		Jee-sus!  You're crazy as catshit!
		You win.  Gimme the cup.

Smiling, O'Brien starts to give him the cup.

					O'BRIEN
		Believe me, later on you'll feel a
		lot better about this...

When suddenly the Litterbug seizes O'Brien's wrist,
yanking him off balance as he pops him square in the nose.

A second blow to the gut doubles O'Brien over and a
briefcase to the back of the head drops him to the
sidewalk.

					LITTERBUG
		Later on you're going to feel a
		whole lot worse!  Haw-haw.

He kicks him in the gut.

					LITTERBUG
		Next time mind your own business!

He walks away as O'Brien squeezes the styrofoam CUP,
CRACKING it in his fist.

					O'BRIEN
		No good stinking litterbug...

INT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S LAB

Susan is still talking to Nebbleman.

					SUSAN
		Do you remember about five years
		ago, that uh... incident at Purnell
		Labs?

					NEBBLEMAN
		Oh yeah.  They were working on
		molecular assemblers, too, weren't
		they?

					SUSAN
		They also tried using viral R.N.A.
		as the bonding element.

					NEBBLEMAN
		That's right.  C.D.C. found out and
		closed them down...

Susan looks into the mouse cage as Nebbleman remembers the
rest.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Yeah, somebody broke in and stole
		the samples, one of those animal
		rights groups, right?  I remember
		now, they freed all the monkeys
		which caused that huge pileup on the
		Massachusetts Turnpike, right?

					SUSAN
		Yeah.  But it wasn't a group.  It
		was one man.

					NEBBLEMAN
		That's the guy?

She nods.

					NEBBLEMAN
		And you think he knows what we're
		doing here?

She nods again.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Oh.

EXT.  MAIN GATE

A security card slides through the gate box.

The arm raises and Daniel O'Brien drives in, waving to the
security man who absently waves back.

INT.  SECURITY OFFICE

We GLIDE THROUGH the frosted glass and out THROUGH the
inverted letters spelling, "SECURITY."

					SIM
		So you think this psycho-
		environmentalist character stole
		your security key to break into the
		lab?

The head of Argon Security sitting behind his enormous
desk is D.T. SIM, a little guy with something to prove.

His silent partner is Doby, an enormous man with the face
of a mastiff.

					SUSAN
		It might be paranoia, but I've never
		lost my keycard before.

					SIM
		'Paranoia is what separates the
		secured from the unsecured.'

He smiles, enjoying his own cleverness.

					SIM
		Just a little saying we've got in
		the security business, Dr. Bright.
		We get paid to be paranoid.  We
		worry so you don't have to.

He lights a stogie.

					SIM
		A lot of people think security is
		just a job, but for me it's a way of
		life.  It's a state of mind.

He blows a cloud of smoke into the air.

					SIM
		If this nutcase did take it and has
		half a brain, he'd use it right
		away, before we could invalidate it.

					SUSAN
		Yes, that is what I was thinking.

					SIM
		In fact, would it be safe to say,
		based on your general knowledge of
		this character, that he is already
		in the building?

					SUSAN
		Yes, he might be.

INT.  ARGON LAB - CLOSE ON COLORED ID

that O'Brien forged, clipped to the pocket of a lab coat.

We notice that he also inked in some dark glasses and a
moustache.

Smiling, nodding, he moves through the busy corridors with
a sense of inconspicuous conspicuousness.

Susan appears from around a corner, walking toward him as
he turns away.  Something about the tall moustached man
catches her eye when --

					NEBBLEMAN
		Susan!  Susan!

Nebbleman hurries to catch up.

					NEBBLEMAN
		What did security say?

					SUSAN
		They'll in validate the key.
		Probably nothing.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Well, you got another problem.

					SUSAN
		The replicators?

					NEBBLEMAN
		Worse.  Mrs. Argon wants to talk to
		you.  She's waiting in the lab.

					SUSAN
		This day just keeps going from bad
		to worse.

INT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S LAB

FROM INSIDE the mouse cage, we see Poppy looking DOWN AT
us.  Her perfect red lips slightly curling into a sneer.

					POPPY
		Vermin...

					SUSAN (O.S.)
		Can I help you, Mrs. Argon?

As Susan enters the lab, Nebbleman fades back and
disappears.

					POPPY
		I spoke to Dr. Argon this morning
		and he remains frustrated over the
		loss of the original nanobot.

					SUSAN
		I am aware of Dr. Argon's
		frustrations.

					POPPY
		He believes that the second nanobot
		should be ready for testing by now.

Susan does not want to hear this now.

					SUSAN
		Dr. Argon is going to have to muster
		a little patience.  I was rushed
		into testing the nanobot on that
		mouse and now we are dealing with a
		toxic waste that has the potential
		to make Three Mile Island look like
		spilled milk.

Susan stares daggers.

					SUSAN
		Under the circumstances, I can't
		fathom what makes Dr. Argon think we
		are ready for anything bigger.  If
		C.N.N., or hell, if the E.P.A. knew
		what was in my basement --

					POPPY
		Is that a threat, Dr. Bright?

					SUSAN
		Look, as I have said and will
		continue to say, the instability of
		the assembler waste remains my
		priority --

					POPPY
		While you remain on the staff at
		Argon Laboratories, your priorities
		will always be the same as Dr.
		Argon's priorities.  I imagine that
		is a simple enough equation for a
		bright girl like you to figure out.

Poppy smiles.  Susan suppresses the urge to smash her head
with a microscope.

					POPPY
		If you don't have any questions,
		I'll let you get back to doing your
		job.

					SUSAN
		Just one question.  Since Dr. Argon
		no longer has feeling below his
		waist, how is it that you're still
		able to do your job?

Poppy glances up at the security camera in the far corner.

She leans close to Susan and whispers.

					POPPY
		I could have you fired right now.

					SUSAN
		You won't.  That's why you're
		whispering.

Poppy glares at her, then spins on her heels and leaves.

Still fuming, Susan turns to a special computerized,
vault-like machine which is the nanobot freon-containment
system.

At the top, there is a sealed plate that is connected to
an electron microscope.

She touches the plate, almost lovingly, letting her anger
drain away.

Nebbleman skulks back in.

					NEBBLEMAN
		He wants another test?

She says nothing.

					NEBBLEMAN
		I bet he hasn't read a single report
		we've written on the waste problem.

					SUSAN
		I hope you're right.  I'd feel a lot
		worse if he had read them and just
		didn't care.

					NEBBLEMAN
		What are you going to do?

					SUSAN
		What I've always done.  As long as
		I'm the only one who can build the
		nanobot, I'm the only one who can
		say when it should be tested.

As they return to work, we RISE UP TO the unblinking eye
of the security camera.

INT.  SECURITY BOOTH

The security booth is Sim's world; he is intimate with
every detail of each small framed monitor.

					SIM
		Hey, Dobe... Ever wonder if this is
		how God feels looking down on us?

Doby says nothing.

					SIM
		Yeah, me neither.

EXT.  ARGON LABS - DAY

The sun, a brilliant ball of lemon yellow, slowly begins
to curdle --

Transmogrifying into a full moon, pale and winter blue
against a night sky.

INT.  STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT

A dark room filled with barrels labeled, "EXPLOSIVE
MATERIALS:  CONTAINS TRINITROTOLUENE."

A barrel lid cracks open.  Two eyes peek out.

O'Brien unfolds himself, awkwardly climbing out of the
empty barrel.

INT.  STAIRWELL

O'Brien slithers up the stairs, clinging to every shadow.

INT.  HALL

Like a ghost, he glides down the dark empty halls, moving
only when the surveillance cameras pan away.

INT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S LAB

The DOOR HICCUPS and O'Brien slips inside.

On hands and knees he crawls toward the center of the lab
where the nanobot is stored.

Again we PEER OUT THROUGH the wire mesh of the mouse cage.
O'Brien's head POPS UP IN FRONT of us.

					O'BRIEN
		Oh no, P.O.W.s.

He ducks down just as the camera sweeps overhead.  He pops
back up.

Opening the cage, he frees all of the little mice.

					O'BRIEN
		Never leave a man behind.

He grabs the last one, ducking under the arc of the
camera.

INT.  SECURITY BOOTH

There is a flash of white in the corner of Susan's lab.

					SIM
		Did you see that?

Doby nods.

					SIM
		Looked like a... mouse.

INT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S LAB

The cage is empty.

O'Brien finds the security panel of the nanobot
containment system.  He sprinkles graphite dust on the
keypad.

When he blows on the dust, four numbers remain covered:
1-6-8-9.  From his pocket he pulls out a folded paper.

It is filled with a list of all the numbers relevant to
Susan's life such as birthdays, phone numbers and
significant dates.

His thumb stops at "August 6th, 1991.  Birth of Nanobot."

					O'BRIEN
		Never good at remembering numbers,
		were you, Susie?

He types the date and the pressurized SEALS GASP.  The
plate rises, revealing a glass tube filled with a sapphire
blue liquid.

					O'BRIEN
		That's your baby, ain't it?

He is about to touch it when the lab DOOR suddenly swings
OPEN.

He ducks.  Holding his breath, he waits.  The room is
silent.

Slowly, quietly, he peeks out.  A flashlight blinks near
him and he ducks back down.

He hears a WHISPER.

Panicking, he starts to creep toward the door when a beam
of light suddenly pools around him.

					SIM
		Look what we caught here.

O'Brien can't see because of the light in his eyes.

					SIM
		One big muther of a mouse.

O'Brien bolts, running straight into Doby's chest.

A giant fist hammers down onto the top of his skull as his
eyes roll up into his head.

								    FADE TO BLACK.

FADE IN:

ON NIGHTMARE

trapped beneath searing laboratory overhead lights,
Argon's hideous face HOVERS OVER us, a cracked lipless
smile revealing ulcerous gums and stained teeth.

					ARGON
		I've been waiting for something like
		this my whole life.

The voices warp through the watery space.

					POPPY
		Bad boy got caught with his hand in
		the cookie jar.

The faces float over O'Brien like disembodied heads.

					SIM
		You should have stayed in jail, pal.

Argon grips O'Brien's head under the chin.  Poised between
his fingers is a gleaming stainless steel hypodermic
needle.

					ARGON
		For every environmentalist, anti-
		industrialist, animal activist that
		has shoved their myopic,
		protectionist cause-of-the-month
		crap down my throat, I shove this
		down yours!

He sticks the needle into O'Brien's neck.  O'Brien's eyes
flutter, the voices and faces stretching away.

Argon's thumb depresses the plunger.

					POPPY
		You sure you know what you're doing,
		Icky?

INSIDE the hypo, blood blossoms all around us as the
sapphire fluid containing the nanobot is injected into
O'Brien.

We RUSH with blurred speed INTO his blood stream as we see
the nanobot; a microbiotic machine that resembles a
snowflake.

As it bounces from protein cell to cell, falling AWAY FROM
us, it begins to blur as we hear what sounds like MUZAK.

The shapes FOCUS again as we realize that we are now
LOOKING DOWN INTO the aisle of a grocery store.

The two parts of the nanobot become O'Brien and Susan
joined together by the grocery cart they are pushing.

FLASHBACK - INT.  GROCERY STORE

It is the 1970s.  O'Brien is a granola hippie activist
type, extra crunchy.  Susan still loves Oreo cookies.

					SUSAN
		Nanotechnology is going to change
		the world, Danny.  I'm telling you
		in ten maybe twenty years, life is
		going to be a totally new kind of
		experience.

O'Brien is not listening, repulsed by the stock lining the
shelves.

					SUSAN
		And what I love about molecular
		science is the way it revolutionizes
		how we have to think.  It unifies
		the entire world on a single level.
		Everything is completely connected.
		Sometimes I can really feel it,
		everything around us, just a small
		part of a whole.  It's really
		wonderful.

					O'BRIEN
		Yeah, we'll see.

					SUSAN
		We'll see?  What does that mean?

					O'BRIEN
		We'll see how wonderful it is after
		you spend the next twenty years
		making Agent Orange.

					SUSAN
		God, Daniel, I'm not going to make
		Agent Orange.

					O'BRIEN
		You think the chemists that invented
		Agent Orange twenty years ago were
		in school saying, 'Boy, I really got
		some good ideas for a highly toxic
		incendiary defoliant.'  You think
		Oppenheimer was dreaming about
		mushroom clouds before the war?

She tries to ignore him.

					SUSAN
		We've had this conversation already,
		Daniel.

					O'BRIEN
		All I'm saying is that the companies
		that have money for the kind of
		research you're interested in, have
		money because that's what they're
		interested in!  Money!

She stops the cart.

					SUSAN
		I'm sorry I brought the whole thing
		up!  If you're gonna flip your wig --

					O'BRIEN
		I can't help it, Suze.  It's this
		place.  You know how I get in these
		stores.  They freak me out.  All
		these tiny boxes, little cans filled
		with eight syllable God knows what.

He grabs a can of Spam.

					O'BRIEN
		Look at this.  They've taken all the
		food out of food.  When you start
		talking about the future, this is
		what I see.  Huge vats of Spam.  You
		are what you eat and they're turning
		us into Spam-people.

He shoves the can back into the shelf.

					O'BRIEN
		You think it's a coincidence that
		they have all these aisles lined up
		like this, like a little maze!
		We're all lab rats running through
		their maze, pulling lever A or lever
		B, each designed to create some kind
		of bio-chemical dependency.  All the
		while they're everywhere, watching
		us, two-way mirrors, surveillance
		cameras, nodding to each other,
		making little notes.

					SUSAN
		You're insane.

					O'BRIEN
		Am I?  Look!  Right there!  That's
		exactly what I am talking about.

A little BOY is trying to get a box of Trix cereal from a
shelf that is too high.

					O'BRIEN
		Lever A...

He jumps several times, unable to grab the economy-sized
box.  O'Brien walks over to him.

					SUSAN
		Daniel!  Don't -- Oh no.

The tips of the kid's fingers are slowly coaxing the box
from the edge.

					O'BRIEN
		Let me help you, kid.

The Kid's face widens into a smile until O'Brien pushes
the box back.

					KID (BOY)
		Hey!

					O'BRIEN
		You don't want this.

					KID
		Yeah, I do!

					O'BRIEN
		You have no idea what this is doing
		to your body.

					KID
		I like Trix!

					SUSAN
		Daniel, give him the Trix.

					O'BRIEN
		Susan, this is the future of America
		here.

					KID
		Trix are for kids!

O'Brien grabs a box of Shredded Wheat.

					O'BRIEN
		Here, kid, this is great stuff.  Why
		don't you give it a try?

					KID
		I want Trix!  Mommy!

The Boy's wail swells unnaturally loud as we rise up,
DISTORTING, as it becomes --

The PRESSURIZING of the TEST TANK.

INT.  TEST TANK

O'Brien jerks awake.  He is inside a dark steel capsule.

There is a WET SUCKING NOISE as the hoses are opened and
the white assembler fluid begins pumping into the tank.

					O'BRIEN
		Mommy!

INT.  LAB

Argon watches the gauges climbing on the tanks with a mad
gleam in his eye.

Poppy stares at the computer flickering through the model
simulation.

					POPPY
		Icky, this is so exciting.

Sim looks a bit nervous.

					SIM
		How long do you leave him in there?

					ARGON
		Until he's done.

He laughs until the tank shivers.

The whole unit is now sizzling hot.  A coolant line
bursts.

Each of them backs away as the tank vibrates under
mounting pressure, like a water balloon that is ready to
burst.

					POPPY
		... Icky?

The TANK EXPLODES, splitting open like a can of whipped
cream.

We see the world THROUGH the eyes of O'Brien as he rises
from the burbling marshmallow-amnion.  Everything has a
sense of UNNATURAL VISCOSITY as if reality had been remade
with molasses.

The room CURVES and WARPS, our eyes like carnival mirrors.
We see a DISTORTED ARGON staring at us in awe.

					ARGON
		My God... it works.

Now we see O'Brien.

He has been completely polymerized, his entire body
shifting and flowing like a drunken wave machine.

The rubbery flesh of his face looks too heavy, hanging
slack.  His eyes bulge and loll as he tries to focus.

					ARGON
		Grab him!  Hurry!  Grab him!

Doby is the closest and he snatches O'Brien's arm.
O'Brien reacts, yanking his arm which thins to a strand of
spaghetti and whips free.

O'Brien stumbles backwards, quivering like a Jell-O Slinky
until his bare foot, which seems more a puddle than a
foot, lands on the main floor drain.

His leg slips immediately through the sieve as he slaps
down to the floor, one leg sprawled out in front of him.

He blinks.

Then the rest of him falls through.

Sim grabs at the pile of clothes covering the drain but
Daniel O'Brien is gone.

FROM BELOW the drain we LOOK UP at Argon and the others
staring down.

					SIM
		That's impossible.

					POPPY
		It's a miracle.

					ARGON
		It's an organic-polymerization.

Behind them the tank core continues to melt down,
gelatinous waste splattering the room.

					POPPY
		Icky!  What's happening?

					ARGON
		Who cares!  We've got to find him!
		Hurry!

His chair heads for the door.

INT.  STORM DRAIN

A six inch pipe opening GROANS with the sound of
STRETCHING RUBBER.

Fingers suddenly reach out and grab the edge of the hole.

There are a series of CARTOON-LIKE SOUNDS as O'Brien pulls
himself out, emerging from the opening like toothpaste.

After a struggle he pops free, snapping into normal human
proportions.

Cradling his head, he stands up in the corrugated metal
drain.

Unsure of what has happened or why he is naked, he
stumbles out into the creek, his bare feet squishing into
the muddy water.

EXT.  ARGON LABS

The moon throbs overhead in a sky of dark crushed velvet.

Sim and Doby's flashlight beams dart and bounce as they
sweep the compound.

They find the drain pipe and Sim throws his beam down it,
careful not to get his shoes muddy.

					SIM
		Ah for the love of God, I ain't
		going in there.

He looks at Doby.

					SIM
		You check it out.

INT.  ELEVATOR

Poppy and Argon ride up in the elevator that connects the
main lab to Argon Tower.

					ARGON
		It works, Poppy.  It works, it
		works!

					POPPY
		Now, Icky, I don't need you winding
		yourself up.  I need you focused and
		in control.

					ARGON
		But, Poppy, you don't know what this
		means --

					POPPY
		You don't either.  We won't know
		anything until we find that guy and
		find out if he's alive or what.

					ARGON
		Yes, that's true.  We have to find
		him, run tests, determine if the
		polymerization is stable.

					POPPY
		In the meantime, we're going to need
		someone to deal with that mess in
		the lab.  I don't think we should
		call Dr. Bright.

					ARGON
		Oh no.  No.  We'll get her
		assistant.  What's-his-name?
		Nebbishman?

					POPPY
		Nebbleman.

INT.  MAIN LAB

Nigel Nebbleman enters the building.  He is wearing a
raincoat over his pajamas that are covered with small
bunny rabbits.

Poppy is waiting for him.

					POPPY
		Dr. Nebbleman, thank God you're
		here!

In her high heels she is taller than him and when they
embrace, his head lays against her ample bosom.

					POPPY
		I've been nearly hysterical with
		fright.  Thank God you came.  I feel
		so much better that you're here.

					NEBBLEMAN
		What happened?

Poppy leads him to the stairwell.

					POPPY
		As I told you on the phone, there's
		been an accident.  A terrible
		accident.

INT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S LAB

We hear Nebbleman's voice crack with panic, as he rushes
towards the double doors of the lab.

					NEBBLEMAN (O.S.)
		Oh my God.  Oh my God.  Oh my God.

The moment he bursts in and sees the ruptured test tank
melting into the white mucous of the assembler waste --

He faints.

					POPPY
		Great.

INT.  ARGON'S OFFICE

Nebbleman lifts his face from the paper bag he was
breathing in.  Panic is cracking his voice.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Okay.  Alright.  Okey-dokey.  Now,
		we need the nanobot.  The nanobot
		that initiated the reaction.  Once
		we have that we can stabilize the
		meltdown.  Simple really.  No
		problem.

					ARGON
		The nanobot is gone.

Nebbleman's voice rises several octaves.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Gone?  What do you mean gone?  Gone
		where?

His knees buckle as Argon does not answer.

					ARGON
		Dr. Nebbleman, we are scientists,
		you and I and men of science are not
		concerned with emotions and
		opinions.  We are concerned with
		facts.

Nebbleman is hyperventilating, like a mouse caught in a
glue trap.

					ARGON
		The fact is, that the milk has been
		spilled and now we need you to tell
		us how to clean it up.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Cleaned up?  It can't be cleaned up!
		Without the nanobot the waste can't
		be stabilized!  That's what we've
		been trying to tell you!  The only
		thing we can do is run!  Run!  Run!

Argon signals to Poppy.  Poppy slaps Nebbleman.  Nebbleman
is quiet.

					ARGON
		Facts, Dr. Nebbleman.  Facts.
		You've been using cryogenics to
		control the waste from the mouse
		experiment, haven't you?

					NEBBLEMAN
		Well, yes.  The replicators are not
		as active at low temperatures.

					ARGON
		Then perhaps we can use liquid
		nitrogen to keep the meltdown under
		control.

					NEBBLEMAN
		That might work.

					ARGON
		Poppy, order the trucks from the
		Gary plant.  And we're going to need
		a containment crew.

					POPPY
		A containment crew is going to
		attract a lot of attention.

					ARGON
		You're right.  Place a call to our
		friends at the network and to Mr.
		Joplin at the E.P.A.

					NEBBLEMAN
		How did this happen?  How did the
		nanobot activate the assembler
		fluid?  If I'm going to help, I
		have to know what happened.

Argon studies Nebbleman for a moment.

					ARGON
		All right, Dr. Nebbleman.  Come with
		me and I'll tell you everything.

Motoring his chair around, Argon leads Nigel to the
conservatory.

The elevator slides open and Sim gets out leading a muddy
Doby.

					POPPY
		Mr. Sim, did you find him?

Sim has O'Brien's wad of clothes tucked under his arm.

					SIM
		No, but if he's alive I think I know
		where he might go.

He holds up the key to O'Brien's hotel room; the plastic
key chain stamped, "Admiral Hotel."

INT.  ADMIRAL HOTEL - NIGHT

A muddy bare footprint, black grime against green shag.

We PULL BACK and see another, then another, the tracks
leading toward the white light of the bathroom door.

We CLOSE IN ON the bilious white of the steam, the warble
of O'Brien whimpering and shivering even in the scalding
water.

He begins to sneeze and cough as if something were
tickling the back of his throat.  He snorts at it,
inhaling through his nose, trying to suck it out.

Finally, he spits a clear silicon-like wad of phlegm that
remains connected to his mouth by a long rubbery strand.

He spits at it, and it stretches until he flicks it off
with his hand.

It hangs on the wall for a moment like a sticky rubber
slug before being swept down the tub drain.

INT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S LAB

We RISE THROUGH the floor drain.

Wearing a special insulated contamination suit, Nebbleman
is on hands and knees examining the lab floor.

He lifts a hand and we see an impression that gradually
fades as if the ground were a sheet of foam.

He slaps it hard and the tile ripples like a waterbed.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Oh God, it's worse than I thought.

He runs for the door leaving a trail of footprints.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Get that crew in here.  Now!

EXT.  ARGON LAB - NIGHT

Outside the lab a flurry of activity erupts.

Thick hoses are attached to the belly of giant tanker
trucks.

Brilliant portable kliegs illuminate the grounds like a
ball park.

Men in bulbous insulated space suits milk the tankers
filling scuba-like canisters that are worn on their backs.

The bold letters on the back of the tanker read:  "WARNING
-- LIQUID NITROGEN."

Slowly we MOVE TOWARD the "O" in "NITROGEN." It OPENS in
front of us like a yawning tunnel which we DESCEND INTO.

INT.  ADMIRAL HOTEL ROOM - DAY

O'Brien is in a deep sleep, mouth wide open, his breathing
rasped.  Turning his face deeper into his pillow, he is
suddenly unable to breathe.

He sucks for air with a strained gurgle.  His eyes pop
open, still suffocating and he bolts upright.

We see that his neck has been twisted around like a
knotted sheet.

His head spins around and snaps back into place.

					O'BRIEN

		Mommy?

He is dizzy and confused.  He rubs his head and neck,
panic seeping into his expression as he begins to remember
last night's events.

He looks down seeing the muddy footprints on the carpet.

O'Brien touches his neck where he was injected.

					O'BRIEN
		Uh oh.

Suddenly the door whaps open, Sim and Doby FILLING the
FRAME.

					SIM
		Good morning, Mr. O'Brien!

Still in his underwear, O'Brien jumps from the bed.

					O'BRIEN
		You!  I remember you!

					SIM
		I'm real touched.  Now get your
		Sunday's on.  We're going for a
		ride.

He throws O'Brien's pants at him.

					O'BRIEN
		What?  I'm not going anywhere!

					SIM
		Oh yes you are!

					O'BRIEN
		I get it.  You're the goon fetch
		boy.  The zookeeper Argon calls in
		when one of his guinea pigs gets
		loose.

					SIM
		That's right.

Sim opens his coat showing O'Brien his firearm.

					SIM
		Only this ain't no tranquilizer gun.
		Now let's go!

					O'BRIEN
		Forget it, pissboy!  You tell Argon
		he can call my lawyer.

Sim reaches for his gun.

					SIM
		The hard way it is!

O'Brien heaves a Yellow Pages at Sim which sails past his
head.  He leaps behind the coffee table.

Sim points the gun at O'Brien's head.

					SIM
		Not smart!  You forgot I've got the
		gun!

O'Brien, on his toes, keeps the table in between him and
Sim.

					O'BRIEN
		Then let's see you use it, bucko!
		Dr. Argon's not going to take it
		very well that you killed his
		experiment.

Sim snorts.

					SIM
		Okay.  Okay.  Doby?

He waves Doby to the other side of the table.  But before
they can grab him, O'Brien spins away from Sim and bolts
for the window.

He throws it open, yelling.

					O'BRIEN
		Help!  Somebody help me!

Sim and Doby tackle him from behind.

					SIM
		I'll take care of this.  Hold him.

Sim raises his gun high into the air --

					SIM
		Lights out.

And brings it down on O'Brien's head.  It rebounds off of
O'Brien's skull which in turn rebounds off the floor.

					O'BRIEN
		Ow!

Sim raises it again.

					SIM
		I said -- Lights out!

And again smashes O'Brien in the head to no effect.

					O'BRIEN
		Ouchhh!  Cut it out!

Sim looks at the gun then repeatedly brings a hail of
blows onto O'Brien whose head bounces off the gun and
floor like a dribbling basketball.

O'Brien grabs his head as Sim tires.

					O'BRIEN
		Jesus!

Panting, Sim holsters his gun.

					SIM
		Get his legs.

O'Brien lunges, grabbing the window sill as the two men
each take a leg.

					O'BRIEN
		No!

They heave at his legs trying to wrench him from the sill.
O'Brien's body raises off the floor.

Struggling and straining with all of his might, O'Brien
looks up to secure his grip and his eyes go wide.

O'Brien's arms have begun to stretch.  He looks back over
his shoulder to see that his legs also have begun to
stretch.

Sim and Doby seem to notice at the same time, that they
have stretched O'Brien halfway to the door.

					SIM
		Holy shit!

The two men let go of O'Brien's legs and he is flung like
a slingshot out of the room.

					SIM
		Holy shit!

He cartwheels in the space outside the window, splayed and
flailing spastically.

The people, nine floors down, scream as O'Brien plummets
toward them.

O'Brien's tearing eyes clamp shut in the face of onrushing
pavement, a faint sound caught in his ear.  An ascending
twang, like a tightening guitar string.

Whump.  O'Brien hits the ground, unsure if he's alive of
dead.

A woman screams.

He rattles his head and opens his eyes.  There is a woman
in front of him, her face buried in her hands.

O'Brien tries to stand.

					O'BRIEN
		Oh God -- am I dead?

Hearing him, the woman peers out from shielding fingers.
She looks up at his arm and screams again.

O'Brien is confused.  Slowly he turns, following her gaze
up, up, up.  His arm stretches up to the ninth story
window, like a safety line, his hand still gripping the
sill.  His face contorts in horror.

O'Brien screams, letting go.

Loopy wet spaghetti strands collect on the sidewalk in a
pile as his arm falls.  The crowd collectively inhales.
The hand plops on the top of the pile like some strange
garnish.

O'Brien whimpers.

A CAR SCREECHES to a stop and O'Brien jumps back at the
sound.  As he lands, his body jerking to the side, his arm
suddenly begins reeling in like a fishing line.

The crowd's heads swivel back and forth watching the arm
snap back to normal in a loud whip-crack.

					O'BRIEN
		Oh God.

He cradles the arm under the stare of the gaper's block.
Chest heaving, he stumbles back two steps.

He shoots a look up at his apartment window.  The shadows
of Sim and Doby look down.

He bolts.

INT.  ADMIRAL HOTEL ROOM

Sim and Doby watch open-mouthed as O'Brien disappears down
the street.

					SIM
		This is going to take some
		explaining.

Sim whips out his cellular phone and dials.

					SIM
		Mrs. Argon?  It's Sim.

					POPPY (V.O.)
		Mr. Sim?  Do you have him?  He's
		alive?

					SIM
		Oh yeah, he's alive.  Technically.

					POPPY (V.O.)
		And you have him?

					SIM
		We lost him.

INT.  ARGON'S OFFICE

Poppy sits atop the massive ebony slab of Argon's desk,
the phone pressed to her ear.

					POPPY
		Here, you tell him.

She smiles and hands the phone to Argon.

					ARGON
		Mr. Sim, you know I sooner kill the
		messenger then listen to bad news.

INT.  ADMIRAL HOTEL ROOM

Sim swallows hard.

					SIM
		Don't worry there, Dr. Argon.  He
		gave us the slip, in a manner of
		speaking.  But we're definitely
		closing in on him.

Doby frowns.

					ARGON (V.O.)
		Mr. Sim, when you do locate him.  Do
		not scare him off again.  Just watch
		him.  I think you can handle that.
		Right, Mr. Sim?

					SIM
		You got it, Dr. Argon.

He hangs up.

					SIM
		Shit!

Sim slams his hands on the desk and looks down to find the
pictures of Dr. Bright, a heart encircling it.

					SIM
		Hello?

EXT.  ARGON LABS - DAY

We are LOOKING THROUGH the LENS of a local network news
camera on location outside Argon Labs.  The CAMERA RACK
FOCUSES and PANS TO network reporter, SPENCER LAMM.

					SPENCER
		Tawney, I'm standing in front of the
		security station just outside of
		Argon Labs in Calumet City.  Since
		seven o'clock this morning, when
		security guards barred the weekend
		staff here at Argon Labs, rumors
		have been circulating as to the
		nature of the accident that occurred
		here last night.

He looks over his shoulder as an unmarked tanker rolls
past the security gate.

					SPENCER
		All we know for sure is that at
		9:30 a.m., two sedans carrying the
		county sheriff and men who have been
		identified as high-ranking officials
		of the E.P.A. entered the Argon
		offices and have not come out.

INT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S BROWNSTONE

We PULL BACK REVEALING the reporter on television in the
kitchen.

					SPENCER (V.O.)
		We expect a statement some time
		today, but until then we can only
		speculate that whatever did happen
		here, which has crews working around
		the clock, no one was prepared for.
		This has been Spencer Lamm live at
		Argon Labs.

Susan drops her coffee cup when she hears the name.  She
rushes to turn up the volume but the special report is
over.

She is searching the other stations when someone POUNDS on
her door.

THROUGH the peep-hole she sees O'Brien, his face WARPED by
the WIDE-ANGLE LENS.

					SUSAN
		Oh shit...

With the chain still on, she opens the door.

					O'BRIEN
		Susie!  You gotta help me!

					SUSAN
		Daniel, what are you doing here?

					O'BRIEN
		Please, Susan!  I need help!
		Something is wrong with me!

					SUSAN
		Sorry, Daniel, I'm a physicist, not
		a psychiatrist.

					O'BRIEN
		No, something is really wrong...
		look!

He stuffs his arms into the three-inch slot between the
door and the jamb then squeezes his body and head through.

Susan steps back, her mouth falls open.

					SUSAN
		You... you...

She points at him then at the television.

					O'BRIEN
		They did it to me!

					SUSAN
		The nanobot.

As O'Brien spits the story out his gestures become more
animated.

					O'BRIEN
		Last night, Argon's goons grabbed
		me, the big one hit me, probably did
		severe cranio-sacral damage and bam,
		I drop to the floor, and then Argon
		was there, and it became like a bad
		dream.  Everyone was laughing as he
		stuck this big needle in my neck and
		then I'm not sure what happened but
		I came to in a metal tank and they
		drowned me with white goo and I
		thought I was dead, everything soft
		and blurry and the next thing I know
		I wake up back in my hotel and
		Argon's goons bust in and we fight
		and I fall out the window and again
		I thought I was a goner, but I hit
		the ground and I bounce and I look
		up and my arm is really really long
		and I know, I know I shouldn't have
		been in your lab but Jesus Christ,
		Susan, feel my skin, feel it!  It
		feels like plastic!

He reaches his arm across the room and she feels his hand.

					SUSAN
		... just like the mouse.

					O'BRIEN
		Mouse?  What mouse?

					SUSAN
		My first organic-polymerization was
		a lab mouse.

					O'BRIEN
		What happened to it?

					SUSAN
		I don't know.

He jerks his hand away.

					O'BRIEN
		You don't know?

					SUSAN
		It escaped from the lab before we
		could finish the experiment.

					O'BRIEN
		But you've polymerized single-celled
		bacteria and the fruit flies, I know
		you have.

					SUSAN
		Yes.

					O'BRIEN
		Then you must have at some point
		tried to reverse the procedure.

She nods but it is not the kind of nod he was hoping for.

					O'BRIEN
		Oh no, no, no!  You've got to be
		able to fix me!  Please, Susan, tell
		me you can make me normal again!

					SUSAN
		Once the subject was polymerized we
		were unable to reassemble the
		original organic structure.

His legs go wobbly.

					O'BRIEN
		Oh God, please!  This can't be
		happening!  I can't be plastic!  A
		plastic man?!

					SUSAN
		Daniel!

					O'BRIEN
		I'm a plastic man!  A plastic man!

She slaps him; his chin flaps back and forth before
snapping into place.

					SUSAN
		We don't have time for hysterics.

					O'BRIEN
		We don't?

					SUSAN
		What has happened to you is nothing
		compared to what is going to happen
		to Calumet City if we don't hurry.

INT.  KITCHEN

She hands him a glass of water and drops several pills
into his open palm.

					O'BRIEN
		What are these?

					SUSAN
		Mostly caffeine diuretics.  Help you
		go to the bathroom.

					O'BRIEN
		Why?

					SUSAN
		The nanobot is still inside you.
		It's programmed to exit through the
		urinary tract.  We need it as soon
		as possible, so swallow those.

He stares at the gleaming plastic capsules.

					O'BRIEN
		Pills... you know how I feel about
		pills.

					SUSAN
		If you don't want to do it this way,
		I can remove it surgically.

He gobbles them down.

					O'BRIEN
		Why do we need it?

					SUSAN
		The nanobot is the only thing that
		can stabilize the waste.

					O'BRIEN
		What waste?

INT.  ARGON LABS - DAY

A BLAST of icy smoke COUGHS from the NOZZLE of a LIQUID
NITROGEN PACK.

Two men in their heavy insulated space suits work over the
broken chamber where O'Brien was polymerized dousing the
assembler waste with their liquid nitrogen hoses.

The lab has become a winter wonderland.

The lights have quit and the room is lit only by the green
and yellow fluoro-glow sticks worn on the helmets of the
workers.

The assembler waste, covered in frost, bubbles and churns
lava-like and the two men FIRE another burst of FROZEN
GAS.

FRANK TATER crosses to the door, his boots CRUNCHING ON
the ICY FLOOR.

INT.  HALL

Dr. Nigel Nebbleman, also wearing an insulated suit, waits
for him.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Well, Frank?

Frank lifts his helmet.

					FRANK
		I've never seen anything like it.
		We can't get a handle on it.

INT.  BASEMENT LAB

It is in this poorly-lit basement that Dr. Bright does
most of her work.

					SUSAN
		To put is simply, the nanobot inside
		you is a microscopic machine encoded
		with information like a strand of
		messenger R.N.A. that is programmed
		to synthesize your molecules with
		the polyisoprenes of the assembler
		fluid, rebuilding your entire
		organic system on a molecular level.

					O'BRIEN
		That was 'simple'?

She sighs.

					SUSAN
		The nanobot combined your molecules
		with the plastic molecules in the
		white assembler fluid, so that on a
		molecular level you now have more in
		common with a Good Year tire than a
		human being.

					O'BRIEN
		Got it.

					SUSAN
		The problem is the by-product
		created by the process.

					O'BRIEN
		The waste.

As they talk, we MOVE ALONG a stainless steel table where
Susan is conducting a series of tests with the waste.

These tests reveal the stages of molecular deterioration
caused by the waste.

					SUSAN
		Only part of the molecule from the
		assembler fluid bonds to your
		molecules.  The part left over is a
		highly charged unstable molecule we
		call a replicator.

She puts on a pair of protective gloves and grabs one of
the test cylinders.

					SUSAN
		The effect these replicators have on
		any matter, organic or inorganic, is
		similar to the molecular
		deterioration caused by nuclear
		radiation.

The PRESSURIZED SEAL SIGHS open and she pours the contents
out.

					SUSAN
		I've been measuring the levels of
		deterioration.  As with radiation,
		the more exposure, the more damage
		it does.

A white egg rolls into her gloved palm.

					SUSAN
		I dropped a single replicator in
		with this egg two days ago.

She hurls the egg at the ground and quite naturally at
this point, it bounces back.

He catches it.  It squishes between his fingers like a
racquetball.  He pulls at it.  It stretches like Silly-
Putty.

					O'BRIEN
		It's polymerized like me?

She takes the egg back.

					SUSAN
		The replicators start off like
		assemblers, but the replicators
		never stabilize.

					O'BRIEN
		What happens?

She opens another cylinder and pours it out.  And oval-
shaped wad of gray SLUDGE SPLATS onto the lid.

					O'BRIEN
		That was an egg?

					SUSAN
		Three days ago it was.

					O'BRIEN
		What do these replicators do to
		people?

					SUSAN
		With enough exposure, the same thing
		they do to everything else.

He swallows hard, watching the egg-wad cling like snot
from the lid, as she reseals the cylinder.

EXT.  MAIN GATE - DAY

Spencer Lamm is on the scene which continues to escalate.

					SPENCER
		Here in Calumet City, a bomb has
		just dropped.  Through anonymous
		sources, we have learned that Argon
		Labs may have been the victim of an
		attack by a radical environmentalist
		group.  No such group has yet to
		claim responsibility but we are
		expecting confirmation of these
		rumors at a press conference
		scheduled this afternoon.

INT.  LAB

Susan puts the cylinder of slime back into a large freezer
unit filled with similar cylinders.

					O'BRIEN
		So right now there's little
		replicators spreading throughout
		Argon's lab?

					SUSAN
		That's right.

					O'BRIEN
		Isn't it already too late then?

She shakes her head, opening a final cylinder.

					SUSAN
		There is a forty-eight hour period
		during which the waste can be
		stabilized.

The contents slide into her hand.

					SUSAN
		The nanobot will start a chain
		reaction and transform the
		replicators through a double
		hydrogen bond, creating an ionic
		solid instead of a polymer.

The egg seems fossilized, half way to becoming the wad of
slime.  She hands it to O'Brien.  It is as fragile as a
glass spider web.

					O'BRIEN
		Yet another miracle of modern
		science.

She ignores the sarcasm laced in that comment.

					SUSAN
		I think while we're waiting, we had
		better run some basic diagnostics on
		you.

					O'BRIEN
		You're the doctor.

EXT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S BROWNSTONE - DAY

Across the street a dark Lincoln ominously glides to a
stop.

INT.  SIM'S LINCOLN

Sim settles back, watching the building for any sign of
O'Brien.

					SIM
		Now we wait.

Both he and Doby are licking ice cream cones.  For a
moment it is the only sound in the car.

					SIM
		Darn good cone.

INT.  BASEMENT

O'Brien is sitting on a table, his shirt off, while Susan
listens to his lungs with a stethoscope.

					SUSAN
		Breathe deep.

The AIR RUSHES out.

					SUSAN
		Lungs sound fine.  You didn't have
		any pre-existing physical
		conditions, did you?  Allergies?
		Infections?

					O'BRIEN
		No, why?

She removes the stethoscope and grabs the light scope.

					SUSAN
		My theory is that during the
		polymerization the nanobot should
		correct any malformed or defective
		molecules.  Open.

His mouth stretches impossibly wide for an amazing view of
the glands at the back of his throat.

Looks fine.

					SUSAN
		That theory is the reason Argon has
		been pushing me to test the second
		nanobot.  He believes it's the only
		thing that will save him.

She picks up a hypodermic needle.

					SUSAN
		I'd like to run a few sample blood
		tests to get an idea of how stable
		your condition is.

O'Brien is beginning to bounce a bit, the caffeine pumping
through his veins.

					O'BRIEN
		Okay.  Sure.  You're the doc.

Tearing open a needle package, she inserts it into the
plastic hypo.

					SUSAN
		Hold still.

She fights to poke the needle through his resilient skin.

When the sliver of metal pops through, tiny Superball
bubbles of blood bounce into the cartridge like ping-pong
balls in a bingo machine.

					SUSAN
		Amazing.

She fills another cartridge when he begins to chatter, his
rubbery teeth vibrating against each other.

					SUSAN
		Is something wrong?

					O'BRIEN
		No, no, I just feel wired!

His whole body begins to twitch and ripple.

					SUSAN
		It's probably the caffeine.

Suddenly he realizes he has to go to the bathroom.

					O'BRIEN
		Whoa!  Whoa!  I gotta go!  Right
		now!

She slips the needle out and he bolts off the table.

					SUSAN
		Wait!

She grabs a glass beaker as his hand shoots back and snags
it.

INT.  BATHROOM

He bursts in, fumbles with the beaker and his zipper, then
lets it rip.

					O'BRIEN
		Ahhh...

His eyes close as we hear him filling the beaker.  It is a
STRANGE SOUND; more like a solid than a liquid.

The sound bothers him and he looks down.  What he sees
terrifies him.

INT.  BASEMENT LAB

Susan is looking into a microscope at the blood samples
when he comes tearing down the stairs.

					O'BRIEN
		Susan!

					SUSAN
		What?  What's wrong?

He throws the beaker onto the table as if it were
contagious.

					O'BRIEN
		Look at this!

					SUSAN
		What about it!

He sticks a stirring rod into it and pulls it out.  The
contents are extremely viscous, like rubber cement.  A
wispy strand dangles from the end of the stick.

					O'BRIEN
		Just look at it!

					SUSAN
		The polymerization probably
		synthesized into a kind of methyl-
		cyanoacrylate.  So what's wrong?

He looks as if he is about to cry.

					O'BRIEN
		That's not biodegradable.

She can't stop herself from laughing.

					O'BRIEN
		Oh yeah, real funny.  Yuk-yuk.
		Let's laugh at everything a man
		believes in.

					SUSAN
		I'm sorry, Daniel, but you have to
		admit it's pretty ironic that you of
		all people would be the first man
		ever polymerized.  It's got to mean
		something.

					O'BRIEN
		Means?  Oh no.  We won't know what it
		means until the end of the story and
		maybe then it won't seem quite as
		funny to you, Doctor Frankenstein!

The smile disappears.

					SUSAN
		What's that supposed to mean?

					O'BRIEN
		Just giving credit where credit is
		due.

					SUSAN
		You have no one to blame but
		yourself.

					O'BRIEN
		Blame the victim.

					SUSAN
		Victim my ass!  You stole my
		security key and used it to break
		into my lab to do who knows what
		kind of damage!  Maybe this is the
		end of the story and you finally got
		what you deserved!

					O'BRIEN
		This is what I deserve for trying to
		protect the world from a madman and
		his mercenary physicists?

					SUSAN
		You're not protecting the world,
		you're obstructing progress!

					O'BRIEN
		I don't consider uncontrollable
		toxic waste progress!

					SUSAN
		And I'm sure you thought Columbus
		was going to sail off the edge of
		the world!

					O'BRIEN
		But lo and behold he found another
		world that progress could
		annihilate!

					SUSAN
		Come on, I don't see you living in a
		cave!

					O'BRIEN
		And I don't see you sunbathing at
		Chernobyl!

She stops first, smiling, caught by an odd sense of deja
vu.  He smiles, feeling the same thing.

					SUSAN
		Just like old times.

					O'BRIEN
		Yeah.  Old times.

There is an awkward silence.

					O'BRIEN
		I want you to know that I really
		appreciate you helping me.

					SUSAN
		I'm glad you came to me for help.

They aren't sure what to do.

					O'BRIEN
		I feel very emotional right now.  A
		bit out of control.

					SUSAN
		Probably the caffeine.

					O'BRIEN
		Do you have something to bring me
		down?

					SUSAN
		No problem.

INT.  ARGON'S OFFICE

JOHN JOPLIN, high-ranking EPA official, listens as Dr.
Nebbleman tries to explain what has happened.

Argon and Poppy are also in the office.

					NEBBLEMAN
		The nanobot is a molecular machine.
		It uses the assembler fluid to
		polymerize a whole system of carbon-
		based molecules as in, say, a human
		body.

His eyes shift nervously to Argon who nods encouragingly.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Once it's complete, the waste from
		the assembler fluid is left
		destabilized with groups of highly
		charged attractors capable of
		bonding to any carbon molecule
		exposed for a long enough period.

					JOPLIN
		Hold on, son.  Are you saying that
		they can bond to people?

					NEBBLEMAN
		With enough exposure, it appears
		they can bond to anything.

					JOPLIN
		Well, what will they do to people?

Nebbleman glances nervously at Argon.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Well, at this time, I mean that is
		to say, it is difficult to
		project --

					ARGON
		Look, John, nobody wants to find out
		what happens.  That's why you're
		here.  We need your help on this one
		and that's why that suitcase is
		here.

Poppy opens it for him.  The root of all evil.  Stacks and
stacks of it.

					JOPLIN
		Let me assure you, Dr. Argon, the
		E.P.A. is, as always, on your side.

INT.  SUSAN'S LIVING ROOM

It is later.

O'Brien is stretched out on the sofa in a valium fugue;
his long supple limbs conform to the curves of the
cushions, dangling over all sides.

His head is on the floor, neck distending down from the
arm rest.

Mid-snore, he wakes up, yawning.

From his upside down view, he sees the refrigerator.

					O'BRIEN
		... food.

INT.  BASEMENT LAB

Susan is looking through a microscope trying to find the
nanobot.

					SUSAN
		Come on, where are you?

INT.  KITCHEN

O'Brien opens the fridge.

Rubber-necking, he looks inside while his body lies on the
couch.

					O'BRIEN
		Hey, Susie!  I'm hungry!

INT.  BASEMENT LAB

She is still glued to the microscope.

					SUSAN
		Damn it!

She pounds her fist against the lab table.

					O'BRIEN (O.S.)
		Uh oh.  I remember that temper.

					SUSAN
		Daniel, I didn't hear you come
		down...

She turns and finds his head almost floating, perched on
his neck arching erectly up the stairs.

					O'BRIEN
		What's wrong?

					SUSAN
		The nanobot... it's not here...

					O'BRIEN
		It's still inside me?

She nods watching his head bobbing cobra-like around her.

					SUSAN
		You'll have to start drinking
		fluids, lots of fluids.

She reaches out and touches his neck.  He smiles.

					SUSAN
		How far can you stretch?

					O'BRIEN
		I don't know.

EXT.  SUSAN'S BACKYARD - DAY

Standing in the square of rich green grass, O'Brien looks
up.

He lifts his head and takes a deep breath, staring at his
fingers spread against the blue expanse above him.

					SUSAN
		Go ahead.  Reach as high as you can.

From ABOVE his hand, we see O'Brien nod nervously and
begin to reach --

His face, Dr. Bright, the square lawn, the house, one by
one seem to FALL AWAY --

Spreading out under the hand until the ground seems like
the sky did moments ago.

INT.  SIM'S LINCOLN

Sim and Doby lean into the front windshield of the black
Lincoln, watching O'Brien's arm telescope into the sky.

					SIM
		That's why I love the security biz.
		Just when you think you've seen
		everything...

He whips out his cellular.  Dials.

EXT.  SUSAN'S BACKYARD

Dr. Bright stares, open-mouthed, at the arm-ribbon as it
rises impossibly like a kite.

She turns and sees O'Brien's body thinning, almost
spooling out like a ball of yarn until his pants fall down
to his ankles.

He feels the draft and turns to see her looking at him.

					O'BRIEN
		Oops.

He grabs his pants as his arm returns with a RUSHING sound
that ends with a loud rubbery CLAP.

					O'BRIEN
		I'll end up back in jail for
		indecent exposure.

Dr. Bright nods vaguely, already lost in thought.

					O'BRIEN
		What?

She reaches out and feels his hair.

INT.  BASEMENT LAB

A scalpel saws through several strands of O'Brien's hair.

					SUSAN
		That should do it.

His hair is shorter and she drops the strands with the
rest of it, into a Ziploc bag.

					SUSAN
		I'm going to go out for a while.  I
		want to take the blood samples to a
		lab that has the equipment I need.

					O'BRIEN
		What did you want my hair for?

					SUSAN
		Something else I want to try.

She puts the Ziploc bag in her briefcase and gets the
blood samples.

					O'BRIEN
		I could go with you.

					SUSAN
		I think it would be better for me to
		go alone.  I'm sure Sim is looking
		for you.  Just sit tight.  I'll bring
		you back a pizza.

					O'BRIEN
		No cheese.

					SUSAN
		I was hoping you were over that.
		Remember to keep drinking fluids.

INT.  LIMO

Poppy, Argon and John Joplin are inside, as it pulls up
outside Cook County courthouse.

					POPPY
		How do I look?

She is dressed in a two-piece PVC business suit; smart yet
slutty.  Argon smiles.

					ARGON
		Positively paradoxical.

INT.  SUSAN'S LIVING ROOM

O'Brien is stretched out on the couch watching "The Itchy
and Scratchy Show" on the television.

He is drinking a two liter bottle of Coke without
stopping.  His Adam's apple bobs like a cartoon as he
swallows.

We can hear the COKE FIZZING in his distending stomach.
It swells like a water balloon.

Finishing the bottle, he tosses it into a garbage bag
filled with empties.

He lets out a super hero style belch then settles back,
chuckling at the cartoon.

Itchy gets a frying pan to the face.

On the table, there is a vase filled with dried flowers.
He empties it and with the vase walks over to the hall
mirror.

Slowly he forces the vase over his head.

When he yanks it off, his head keeps the shape.  He starts
to laugh and his face pops back.

There is a series of GURGLING sounds from his STOMACH as
he realizes he has to go.

He bolts for the bathroom, his hand whipping out for the
beaker.

SAME - BIT LATER

He's finished and he sets the beaker back where it was.
He thinks and mumbles.

					O'BRIEN
		Technically, I don't even have to
		'go' to the bathroom...

We MOVE CLOSER and CLOSER to the beaker, THROUGH the glass
INTO the golden fluid --

SHRINKING as we MOVE THROUGH the murk DOWN TO the
MOLECULAR LEVEL where we SQUEEZE BETWEEN chains of
elastomers --

And FIND the nanobot.

INT.  COOK COUNTY COURTHOUSE

The press room is small, considering the sizable horde
that is packed wall to wall, shoulder to shoulder, to see
CEO Poppy Argon and the EPA deliver their statements.

The WHITE NOISE of press CHATTER reaches a fevered pitch
as the county sheriff leads Poppy Argon and several EPA
officials in.

John Joplin steps to the podium and the crowd noise dies.

He leans into the bouquet of microphones, opening his
statement.

					JOPLIN
		Good afternoon.  The intent of...

A MAN shouts from the crowd.

					MAN
		Who are you?

					JOPLIN
		Oh.  I'm John Joplin, special
		investigator for the E.P.A.  The
		intent of this press conference is
		twofold.  Number one, to affirm that
		there has been a slight chemical
		spill at Argon Labs.  Cleanup is
		already under way.

FLASHBULBS BURST.

					JOPLIN
		And number two, that the E.P.A. in
		conjunction with members of Illinois
		County Sheriff Department and the
		F.B.I. have concluded that the spill
		was not accidental.

The press begins to titter and Joplin raises his voice.

					JOPLIN
		Last night, Argon Labs was the
		target of what can only be described
		as a terrorist act.

Another barrage of flashes.

					JOPLIN
		The single assailant sabotaged
		certain chemical storage units,
		creating the toxic spill.

					MAN
		Are there any suspects?

					JOPLIN
		The only thing I can say is that the
		perpetrator was photographed by
		Argon Security cameras.  The rest of
		the details of the case, until a
		later time, will be kept in the
		highest confidentiality.  Thank you.

The press erupts:  "Who was it?  Was it a group?  Have you
identified him?"

Joplin's eyebrows go up and he turns back to the podium.

					JOPLIN
		Oh, yeah.  His name's Daniel
		O'Brien.

The entourage begins to file out under a barrage of
questions.  Spencer Lamm fights to get his crew in front
of Poppy.

					SPENCER
		Mrs. Argon, do you have anything to
		say to this O'Brien character?

Poppy looks at the mic, several others surrounding it.

					POPPY
		All I can say is that when these
		radicals act outside the law,
		recklessly endangering the
		environment and human lives, it
		clearly demonstrates that they are
		the menace and we are the victims.

INT.  SUSAN'S LIVING ROOM

The TELEVISION is ON, though "MUTED."

We hear O'BRIEN GRUNTING and the sound of sweaty RUBBER
RUBBING AGAINST RUBBER.

The door opens and Susan enters, a pizza box in one hand,
briefcase in the other.

					SUSAN
		Daniel?

As she enters, she notices something is different about
the furniture.  There is a second, flesh-colored love
seat.

O'Brien's head suddenly pops up.

					O'BRIEN
		Surprise!

His head rises from the top of the back.

					SUSAN
		That's pretty good.

					O'BRIEN
		Getting used to it.

He starts to get up, becoming human, the round padded seat
swelling into buttocks when he realizes he is naked.

					O'BRIEN
		Whoa!

He pops back to a chair.

					SUSAN
		Don't worry, I got just what you
		need.

A leg of the chair shoots out as he grabs his underwear
from the pile of clothes.

Susan sets the pizza down and opens her briefcase.

					SUSAN
		I have a friend at a textile lab.
		She helped me.

The O'Brien chair pulls the underwear up over the front
two legs, covering the cushion as he stands changing back
to normal.

					SUSAN
		Ta-da!

She holds up a tiny red suit that looks big enough for a
G.I. Joe doll.

					O'BRIEN
		What's that?

					SUSAN
		It's a crime fighting costume, what
		do you think?  It's underwear, so if
		you lose your clothes you'll still
		be decent.

					O'BRIEN
		That's going to fit me?

					SUSAN
		Like a glove.

He pulls at it.  It stretches easily.

					O'BRIEN
		You made this out of my hair?

					SUSAN
		Sort of.  We used a process similar
		to the vulcanization of rubber and
		added bulk with a chain of
		chloroprene elastomers.

He shakes his head.

					O'BRIEN
		I bet you still kill at Scrabble.

She smiles.

					SUSAN
		Go on, try it on.  Oh wait...

She reaches back into her bag.

					SUSAN
		There was some extra, so I made
		these.

In her palm are two little red boots.

					O'BRIEN
		Cute.

As he crosses to the bathroom we see the television is
again updating the crisis at Argon Labs.

					SUSAN
		Did you go?

					O'BRIEN
		On the counter.

She grabs the sample, heading immediately for the
basement, when the television catches her eye.

INT.  BATHROOM

O'Brien crams one foot in and then the other.  The
material stretches miraculously.

					O'BRIEN
		Groovy.

INT.  SUSAN'S LIVING ROOM

O'Brien bounds out of the bathroom.

					O'BRIEN
		'In brightest day, nor darkest
		night.  No evil shall escape my
		sight.'

Susan is silent in front of the TV, the sound now ON.  She
is still holding the beaker.

					O'BRIEN
		What is it?

He moves around her and sees his own face on the screen.

It is the black and white photo of him about to sneeze.

At the bottom of the screen is the title, "Voice of Dr.
Warren Wertham."

					DR. WERTHAM (V.O.)
		... an extremely volatile individual
		given to emotional outbursts.

					O'BRIEN
		Wertham?  That's no good.

					SUSAN
		Who is he?

					O'BRIEN
		The head shrinker at the prison.

					DR. WERTHAM (V.O.)
		... paranoid delusions and prone to
		hero fantasies all of which are
		characteristic of a form of
		infantile dementia.

					O'BRIEN
		Ha!  What a crock.  He couldn't be
		more wrong, could he?

She says nothing.

					O'BRIEN
		I said, could he?

The sneeze picture shrinks to an insert over the anchor
woman, Tawney Towers' shoulder.

					TAWNEY (V.O.)
		Once again, at this time,
		authorities continue their statewide
		manhunt for the man believed
		responsible for the situation
		developing at Argon Labs.  As
		reports come in, News Center 5 will
		continue to update you.

Susan cuts it OFF.

					SUSAN
		Oh no.  They're trying to blame you
		for the accident.  That means they
		must not have been able to control
		the replicators.

					O'BRIEN
		I can't go back to jail.  I gotta
		get out of here.

					SUSAN
		You're not going back to jail.  All
		we need to do is find the nanobot.
		Once the meltdown is under control,
		then we deal with Argon --

Suddenly, the front door explodes open, the jamb easily
splintering under Doby's girth.

Doby and Sim barrel in, pistols pointing.

					SUSAN
		What in the hell?

					SIM
		Pipe down, brain lady!  And you...

The gun sweeps toward O'Brien.

					SIM
		I'd curb that monkey business,
		lessin' you want to find out if that
		rubber skin of yours is bulletproof.
		Now, keep your hands where I can see
		them.

He notices the urine sample.

					SIM
		What's that?

Susan doesn't miss a beat.

					SUSAN
		Lemonade.  Do you want some?

She offers him the beaker.  Sim considers it.

					SIM
		No thanks.

Back to business.

					SIM
		Put it down and let's go.  Someone
		wants to talk to you.

He waves them out the front door as she sets the beaker on
the counter.

EXT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S BROWNSTONE

The black LIMO FIRES UP as the foursome approach.  Sim
opens the back door for O'Brien and Dr. Bright.

					SIM
		Get in.

INT.  LIMO

In the artificial coolness, Daniel O'Brien sits with
Icarus Argon, across from Poppy, Susan, and Dr. Nebbleman.
In the rear window we see Sim's Lincoln follow.

Poppy brandishes a chrome revolver from her handbag.

Argon smiles in the shady light, makeup covering the more
abrasive features of his spotty skin.

					ARGON
		My apologies to you both for the
		rather rude invitation but I had to
		see you.  And, Dr. Bright, your
		house isn't...

He motions to his blanket-draped legs.

					ARGON
		Wheelchair accessible.

					SUSAN
		Dr. Argon, I demand an explanation.

					O'BRIEN
		I can explain it.  Attempted murder
		wasn't enough for him.  He wants to
		add kidnapping to the charges.

					ARGON
		If you'd like, we can go straight to
		the authorities.  I understand they
		are very interested in talking to
		you.

O'Brien's only response is to grind his teeth in silence.

					ARGON
		We haven't been properly introduced,
		Mr. O'Brien.  I am Icarus Argon.

He offers his hand, taking O'Brien's.

He closes his eyes, beginning to caress O'Brien's hand
between the withered brown flesh of his own.

					ARGON
		Do you know how I made my first
		fortune?  Poly vinyl chloride.
		P.V.C.  It was almost thirty years
		ago when I first held a credit card
		in my hands.  There was something
		about the way it felt.  I told
		myself, paper was doomed.  This was
		the future...

He looks at O'Brien's hand, lets go.

					ARGON
		... plastic.

					O'BRIEN
		Wow, that is one moving story.  Take
		it easy on my heart strings.  Now I
		really feel guilty complaining about
		you shooting me up with your poison.

					ARGON
		Poison?  I'm surprised at you.  You
		lack vision, Mr. O'Brien.

					O'BRIEN
		You're lacking a few things too:
		ethics, morals, common decency and,
		oh yeah, deodorant.

Argon smiles.  His coolness irritates O'Brien.

					ARGON
		Look at me, Mr. O'Brien.  I once
		competed for Mr. Universe but now I
		am reduced to this, a withered
		shell.  A prison of rot.

He leans into O'Brien.

					ARGON
		People ask me what I did to myself.
		I answer, what didn't I do?!  I
		treat me body like I treat the rest
		of the world, as a force to be
		controlled.  Most people believe
		there is something sacred about the
		human body, about nature.  They are
		the same fools who thought the
		world was flat.

O'Brien smirks.

					ARGON
		The body is just another part of
		nature and ever since we gave up
		trees for central air, there has
		been nothing sacred about nature.
		Nature is the enemy, Mr. O'Brien,
		and science is our greatest weapon
		against her.

					O'BRIEN
		You egomaniacs make me laugh.
		Nature's going to bury you like she
		buries everyone else.

Argon laughs.

					ARGON
		Not anymore, Mr. O'Brien.  The
		nanobot has changed that.

					SUSAN
		If you think I would ever give you
		the nanobot after this, you are
		deluding yourself.

					ARGON
		You don't have to give it to us
		because Dr. Nebbleman can just cut
		it out of him.

					O'BRIEN
		Ha!  Morons.  It's not even in me
		anymore.

Everyone reacts.

					ARGON
		What?

Before O'Brien can say anything else, Susan slaps her hand
over his mouth.

					NEBBLEMAN
		She could have given him something
		to stimulate his kidneys.

					ARGON
		Dr. Nebbleman, take care of them.

Argon grabs the car phone while Nebbleman removes a loaded
syringe from a black case.

					ARGON
		Mr. Sim I want you to return to Dr.
		Bright's.  I believe she is hiding
		something of ours there.

					SUSAN
		No.

We see the Lincoln turn off the highway.

					SUSAN
		Daniel, do something!

With eye blurring speed, O'Brien's arm rockets out as he
grabs for the needle.  Nebbleman screams as O'Brien's hand
molds over his own.

Poppy wheels on O'Brien as Nebbleman falls, screaming,
wrestling against his own hand.

Before she can raise the gun, Dr. Bright lunges, grappling
for control.

The GUN FIRES wildly.

					ARGON
		No!

The BULLET RICOCHETS around the cabin before embedding in
the seat cushion in between Nebbleman's legs.

O'Brien pushes the hypo plunger down, squirting the
sedative in Nebbleman's face.  Nebbleman screams.

					SUSAN
		Daniel, go!  I'll be all right!  Get
		the nanobot!

He nods, yanking the door handles but they are locked.

He glances quickly around the limo, then dives at the rear
seat, body thinning, flattening into the crack where the
seat meets the back --

Leaving Poppy clinging to his empty clothes, as he
disappears from the cabin.

Nebbleman can hardly catch his breath.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Where did he go?

					ARGON
		The trunk.

As soon as the words pass Argon's reptilian lips, there is
a CLICK and the TRUNK opens behind them.

					ARGON
		Ott, shake him!

EXT.  LIMO

O'Brien stands and the limo begins to zig-zag hard on the
open expressway.

Argon smiles through the small rear window as O'Brien
tries to keep his balance.

					O'BRIEN
		Here goes nothing.

O'Brien throws an arm at a passing truck going in the
opposite direction seizing hold of it --

Slinging himself like a rubber band --

Into the air, tucking his knees to his chest, bracing
himself.  He becomes --

A red comet, that crashes into an oncoming Cadillac caving
in its hood and rebounding into the air soaring over a row
of homes.

A rumpled heap, he lands heavily in a plot of backyard
bushes.

					O'BRIEN
		Ow.

He stumbles to his feet, shaking away the cobwebs.

					O'BRIEN
		Damn.

His teeth grit.  Muscles flex.

O'BRIEN'S POV

ROCKETS INTO the air --

SHOOTING STRAIGHT UP, RACING FORWARD BOUNDING OVER power
lines and rooftops.

INT.  LIMO

Order has been somewhat restored.

Poppy presses the barrel of her pistol into Dr. Bright's
midsection.

Dr. Nebbleman is still red-faced from the physical
exertion.  His glasses begin to fog and he cleans them
with his kerchief.

The PHONES RINGS.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Yes?

					SIM (V.O.)
		It's Sim.  We're almost there.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Mr. Sim, watch out!  O'Brien escaped
		and could be on his way!

EXT.  APARTMENT BUILDING BACKYARD

Two small children are playing in their sandbox.

Suddenly, a red foot stomps down between them, the thin
leg stretching up into the sky.  It rocks forward and
pushes off and away.

The two kids stare at each other blankly.

EXT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S BROWNSTONE

Sim and Doby head for the front door, Sim still on his
cellular phone.

					SIM
		You want to tell me what I'm looking
		for?

					NEBBLEMAN
		I've only been invited to her house
		once, but I know there is a basement
		lab that she uses for private
		research.

					SIM (V.O.)
		Okay.

					SUSAN
		You were never invited to my house.

					NEBBLEMAN
		You're looking for a urine sample.

					SIM (V.O.)
		Bingo.

EXT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S BROWNSTONE

Sim stares toward the basement, when out of the corner of
his eye he notices --

					NEBBLEMAN (V.O.)
		The fluid should be murky yellow in
		color and extremely viscous.

The beaker of lemonade.

INT.  CITY STREET

O'Brien grabs the top of a building and he vaults over as
though hopping a fence.

INT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S BROWNSTONE

Sim inspects the beaker as if he might taste it.  He takes
a whiff.

					SIM
		Wait a minute.  This ain't no
		lemonade.

INT.  LIMO

Susan glares at Nebbleman.

					SIM (V.O.)
		What's it smell like?

					NEBBLEMAN
		Smell?  Uh, something like
		methylcyanoacrylate.

					SIM (V.O.)
		Like Crazy Glue?

					NEBBLEMAN
		Yes.  That's it.  He's got it.  Oh
		God, he's got it!

EXT.  SUSAN BRIGHT'S BROWNSTONE

O'Brien watches from behind a light post as Sim and Doby
cross from Susan's walk to the Lincoln.

He slinks down among the row of parked cars and edges out
toward the street.

The black Lincoln starts TOWARD us getting bigger, FILLING
OUR VISION, then PASSES OVER --

And we see O'Brien clinging to the chassis like a rubbery
Max Cady.

EXT.  CALUMET CITY - DAY

The afternoon sun has started its descend over the
industrial landscape.  Tongues of exhaust flame lick up at
the orange popsicle sky.

EXT.  MAIN GATE

The black limousine eases through the gate against the
swell of media.

The steel garage DOOR RATTLES down like a modern
portcullis.

INT.  ARGON LABS

The barrel-shaped limo driver helps Argon into his
wheelchair.

					POPPY
		Gently, Ott.  Gently.

					ARGON
		Dr. Nebbleman, I want to know the
		moment the nanobot arrives.  The
		instant, understand?

					NEBBLEMAN
		Of course, sir.

					SUSAN
		Dr. Argon, I know you want to use
		the nanobot on yourself, but you
		mustn't.  The situation is critical
		right now.  The replicators are
		growing exponentially.  If we wait
		much longer it will be too late.
		You have to use the nanobot to stop
		the meltdown.

					ARGON
		Dr. Bright, I don't have to do
		anything.

					SUSAN
		But in another twenty-four hours the
		core meltdown will be beyond the
		stabilization period.  There will be
		no way to stop it.

					ARGON
		To be brutally honest with you,
		Susan, as long as the nanobot does
		to me what it did to that idiot
		O'Brien, I don't give a rat's ass
		about what happens after that.

The sincerity of his smile unnerves her.

					SUSAN
		You can't mean that.

					ARGON
		Come with me, Susan.  I want to show
		you something.

INT.  ARGON'S OFFICE

The elevators open and Poppy, Argon and Susan get out.

					ARGON
		Something to drink, Dr. Bright?

					SUSAN
		No, thank you.

					ARGON
		You'll forgive me but all the
		excitement has left me extremely
		parched.  Poppy?

Poppy gets him a Coca-Cola while Susan notices the statue
of Argon.

					ARGON
		A monument to my past.  I much
		prefer the future.  Come.

INT.  CONSERVATORY

The moist air envelops them as they enter.

					ARGON
		This is my garden.  Few people have
		seen it because it means so much to
		me.  I am hoping as a fellow
		scientist you can appreciate it.

It is a botanical nightmare.  Huge sealed tanks feature
bizarre plant-life bred and genetically engineered
indiscriminately, like a blind man pairing a sock drawer.

Susan moves onto the yellow brick lane, a look of horror
wrinkling her face.

					ARGON
		Gardener?

A man in a green jump suit looks up.  This is the
GARDENER.  He is never without his red sprayer tank, slung
over his shoulder and is always wearing an old snouted gas
mask.

					ARGON
		Would you excuse us?

He disappears as the three start down the path.

					ARGON
		Every species, every organism is the
		only one of its kind, created
		through cross-breeding or chemical
		and radioactive mutation as well as
		genetic manipulation.

Inside atmospherically controlled tanks, life exists where
it should not.  Translucent palmy ferns bask beneath a
deadly drizzle of acid rain.  Crystalline cacti flourish
around the soft glow of a radioactive isotope.

					ARGON
		I spend more time here than anywhere
		else, nurturing them, treating them,
		because they all require very
		special care.

He gazes into a sealed geranium at a single flower with
petals the color of a dead fish.  It is being fed drops of
photophorescent paste from tubes that hang like IVs.

					ARGON
		Poppy calls them my children and I
		suppose that's how I feel.  That I
		have given birth to all of them, and
		there is nothing as precious or as
		beautiful as one's own children.

Poppy smiles at him as they stop in front of a tank where
seamonkey-like creatures titter and play inside their
toxic solarium.

					ARGON
		We will always love most that which
		we create.  Don't you agree, Susan?

					SUSAN
		Does that mean Oppenheimer loved the
		atomic bomb?

She can't believe that she just used an O'Brien line.

					ARGON
		More than he would ever admit.  His
		child changed the world.  What could
		make a parent more proud than that?

INT.  ARGON LABS

The black Lincoln glides into the garage.

The door closes behind them and the car eases into the
parking place, the cement block in front of the car reads:
D.T. Sim; Chief of Security.

FROM UNDER the car we see the feet of Sim and Doby sweep
by then disappear as the two men enter the lobby of Argon
Tower.

O'Brien drops to the ground from the Lincoln's drive shaft
letting out a string of whispered expletives.

INT.  CONSERVATORY

Argon slurps from the Coca-Cola, watching Susan.

					ARGON
		I brought you up here, Dr. Bright,
		because I want you to understand
		that we are on the path.  The only
		difference is that you are walking
		with your head down, afraid to look
		up, to see where the path is going.

					SUSAN
		I suppose you are going to tell me
		where it is going.

					ARGON
		I ask you what is the purpose of
		science?  What is the point of all
		our relentless exploration,
		investigation and experimentation?
		It is to understand a single
		physical phenomenon, or to
		understand them all?  To cure one
		disease, or to cure every disease?
		If science is simply a means, what
		then is the end?

His WHEELCHAIR CLICKS and HUMS toward her.

					ARGON
		Look up.  Look above you, Susan, and
		tell me what you see.

She looks up through the glass roof of the conservatory at
the soot-stained sky.

					SUSAN
		Pollution?

					ARGON
		Do you know what I see?  I see man
		making his own clouds.  I see man
		coloring his own sky, and like this
		garden it is a site that makes my
		heart sing.

He licks his lips.

					ARGON
		This is our world, Susan, and once
		you realize that, you will
		understand that the only place our
		path can end is on the throne of
		heaven.  Science is the quest for
		divine perfection.

					SUSAN
		How do you know we're not heading in
		the wrong direction?

					ARGON
		I look behind us, I look to the
		past, to a world steeped in rot and
		decay.  I think of the Acropolis in
		another century reduced to little
		more than dust.  I see the faces of
		Rushmore eventually losing all
		distinction, and then I look at
		this...

He cradles the plastic bottle of Coca-Cola.

					ARGON
		And I imagine it in a thousand years
		as perfectly shaped as the day it
		was made.

He smiles at her.

					ARGON
		I find that thought exceptionally
		reassuring.

Nebbleman burst through the glass doors.

					NEBBLEMAN
		They're here!  They're here!  We
		have the nanobot.

					ARGON
		Excellent.  How long until the
		assembler tank is complete?

Nebbleman's glasses steam up from the humidity as he
stumbles toward them.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Dr. Makeo is working on it now, sir.
		I estimate at least another six
		hours.

					ARGON
		In the meantime, why don't you find
		something useful for Dr. Bright to
		do.

					SUSAN
		I swear to you, Argon, if you don't
		stop the meltdown that nanobot will
		be the last one I ever build.

					ARGON
		Susan, I sense you are having
		difficulty understanding the
		situation you are presently in.  I
		ask that you keep in mind that I am
		ready to reduce an entire city to
		gelatin to get what I want.

Susan notices the guards posted at the door.

					ARGON
		If I were you, I'd be careful about
		making promises that you will be
		unable to keep.

His smile is as subtle as a knife point.

INT.  HALL GALLERY

O'Brien sneaks ever so silently, edging toward the door at
the opposite end.

The walls are covered with an impressive collection by
artists like Dali, Picasso and Bacon, picture-lit
dramatically.

As he nears the end, he suddenly hears voices moving
toward him.  He jumps back, searching for a place to hide.

Two armed GUARDS enter.

					GUARD #1
		Who are we supposed to be looking
		for?

					GUARD #2
		Some guy in red underwear.

They do not notice the bizarre red portrait hanging on the
wall.

					GUARD #1
		How are we supposed to know the color
		of his underwear?

INT.  HALL

A guard is posted outside Susan's room.

INT.  SUSAN'S ROOM

Scientific equipment is piled in a room that looks like a
guest bedroom.

Awkwardly filling the center of the room is a long
industrial freezer unit.

Nebbleman and Susan are alone.

					NEBBLEMAN
		These samples were taken from the
		surrounding area.  All the pertinent
		information is on disk.

Nebbleman lifts the lid, cold air puffing out, spilling
over the freezer's edge.

					NEBBLEMAN
		What we need to know is expansion
		rates, how soon the replicators will
		reach the edge of the compound.

Inside there are several normal-looking objects taken from
the lab, including a metal stool, a microscope and several
glass beakers.

She stares at him numbly.

					SUSAN
		I don't believe this is happening...

					NEBBLEMAN
		Susan, Dr. Argon is giving you an
		opportunity here.

					SUSAN
		Opportunity?

That snaps her up.

					SUSAN
		There's a guard outside my door!
		I'm a prisoner, Nigel!  Do you
		understand that?

					NEBBLEMAN
		Dr. Argon would say we are all
		prisoners.

					SUSAN
		Argon is a lunatic!  I can't believe
		I was stupid enough to believe I
		could control him.  You heard what
		he said, Nigel.  He doesn't care if
		all of Calumet City is turned to
		Jell-O.  How can that not affect
		you?

					NEBBLEMAN
		Because I am a new man, Susan.  I am
		a man of vision.  Your problem,
		Susan, is that you're always looking
		down.  If you'd just look up you'd
		see the big picture and in the big
		picture men of vision do not dwell
		on what might be lost.  They focus
		on what can be gained.

					SUSAN
		Is that what Argon told you?

					NEBBLEMAN
		No!  Well, not those exact words.

					SUSAN
		Nigel, can't you see he's using you?

					NEBBLEMAN
		Of course he is, but at least there
		isn't a security guard outside my
		door.

					SUSAN
		You're afraid of him.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Who isn't?

Her eyes narrow.

					SUSAN
		Daniel O'Brien.

INT.  HALL

O'Brien tip-toes past an intersecting hall when he
hears --

					SECURITY
		Hey...

O'Brien freezes.

					SECURITY
		Hey, you!

The security man is a hundred feet away, but before he can
even get his gun out --

O'Brien's arm shoots down the hall, a huge hand
reaching --

Covering the security man's entire head before he is able
to scream.

The hand is like a plastic bag over his head that he can't
get free of until he finally blacks out.

O'Brien lays him down gently.  His arm snaps back and he
tip-toes away.

INT.  SUSAN'S ROOM

Nebbleman smirks, cleaning his glasses.

					NEBBLEMAN
		I'm not interested in being a hero,
		Susan.  I'm not interested in self-
		delusion and romantic sentiment.

He puts his glasses back on.

					NEBBLEMAN
		I'm a scientist.  I have lived my
		whole life by the diagnostic
		application of fact and the fact is,
		Argon is going to get whatever he
		wants, so if I were you, I'd give it
		to him.

					SUSAN
		You mean the designs for the
		nanobot?  You think after this I'm
		going to give them to him?

					NEBBLEMAN
		I think that either you're going to
		give them to him or he's going to
		make you give them to him.

					SUSAN
		Make me?  How?  You think he's going
		to torture me?

Nebbleman shrugs.

					NEBBLEMAN
		I would.

He smiles and that makes it worse.

					SUSAN
		Get out.  Get out now before I hurt
		you.

Nebbleman stammers before scurrying for the door.

INT.  HALL

O'Brien is searching different rooms, stuffing his head
between door and jamb, calling, "Susan," in a hushed
voice.

The elevator at the end of the hall opens and he hears the
ELECTRIC WHINE of Argon's WHEELCHAIR together with the TAP
of Poppy's STILETTO HEELS.

He presses himself flat against the nearest door.

					POPPY
		Do you think she will give us the
		designs?

					ARGON
		Eventually.  These things are always
		a matter of leverage.

					POPPY
		And you think O'Brien is that
		leverage?

					ARGON
		That remains to be seen.

O'Brien peeks out and sees that they are heading straight
at him.

					POPPY
		And you still believe he's going to
		come here?

					ARGON
		Based on what we know of him, that
		would seem inevitable.

					POPPY
		Do you think she loves him?

					ARGON
		She must feel something for him.
		After all, she and I did create him.

It seems they are about to see him but when they reach the
double doors, O'Brien is gone.

She throws open the door and he follows her into --

INT.  POPPY'S BEDROOM

Everything is red; PVC gleaming like patent leather.

					POPPY
		Do you think she loves him like I
		love you?

It is a woman's question and it annoys him.

					ARGON
		Poppy, are you in one of your moods
		again?

					POPPY
		No, Icky, this is real.

She closes the doors behind them.

					POPPY
		I've been thinking a lot since this
		all started.  Thinking about us.

Uninterested in the direction of the conversation, Argon
notices that there are two identical ottomans.

					POPPY
		You know how I feel about you.  You
		know how much I need you.  How much
		I trust you.  I would do anything
		for you.

					ARGON
		Why are there two ottomans?

					POPPY
		Icarus, please!  This is important!

She sees him staring at the ottoman and steps up onto it,
heels gouging into the padding.

The OTTOMAN GURGLES.

					POPPY
		Look at me, Icarus!  Look at my
		body.  I've done everything, changed
		anything you asked me to.  'We will
		always love most that which we
		create.'  Is that still true?

					ARGON
		Yes.  Yes, of course it is.

					POPPY
		Then you still love me?

					ARGON
		Poppy, please, just tell me what you
		want.

She steps down and kneels close to the wheelchair.

					POPPY
		I want to know what will happen if
		the nanobot works on you become like
		O'Brien, a plastic man.  What will
		happen to me?

He realizes what she is asking.

					ARGON
		You want to be polymerized?

Timidly, she looks up into his eyes.

					POPPY
		Plastic means forever, doesn't it?

His smile is like a razor-cut, lips slowly widening.

					ARGON
		That it does, my dear.  That it
		does.

She smiles until he pulls away and begins wheeling out.

					POPPY
		Icarus?

					ARGON
		I promise, my dear, I will give the
		matter some consideration.

					POPPY
		Consideration?

					ARGON
		If you honestly trust me, then
		you'll have to trust me.

He closes the door.

Angry, she turns away looking for something to hit.  She
picks up a hairbrush instead and begins violently brushing
her hair in the vanity mirror.

Behind her, in the mirror, we see the ottoman scurry
mouse-like to the closest door.

INT.  BATHROOM

O'Brien stands up in agony, holding his back where her
heels dug in.

A CLATTERING noise draws him to the door.  He peeks out
just as she pulls down the zipper on her dress.

Shrugging out of the sleeves, she walks toward the
bathroom.

O'Brien searches the room; where the bedroom was red, the
bathroom is completely white.

There is nowhere to hide except --

The toilet.  He climbs in as the door opens.  She drops
her dress and kicks off her shoes.

As she moves to the tub, O'Brien's hand reaches up and
pulls the flush.

She hears the TOILET FLUSH, looks at it, wiggles the
handle.

INT.  SUSAN'S ROOM

Susan is moving around the room, thinking.

In her gloved hands is the glass beaker which she is
wringing nervously, wadding, crinkling, and pulling at it
so intensely it sounds like popping bubble wrap.

She looks at the windows and at the black steel bars
outside.

We RISE ABOVE her, MOVING TOWARD the chandelier, TOWARD
the single light bulb that is apparently burned out.

Until we can SEE INTO the grayish glass and FIND the tip
of the fiber optic cable.

INT.  SECURITY BOOTH - CLOSE ON MONITOR

as if looking through a window down into Susan's room.

					SIM (O.S.)
		Ubi... Ubiqu... Ubiqu...

WIDER ANGLE

Sim is reading from a dictionary.

					SIM
		Ubiquitous.  Present, or seeming to
		be present, everywhere at the same
		time; omnipresent.

He looks up.

					SIM
		I like that.

INT.  PIPES

O'Brien zips through the intersecting, elbowing maze of
pipes.

INT.  BATHROOM

Another toilet seat peeks open.  The room is empty.
O'Brien climbs out.

He grabs a towel, drying himself as he quietly cracks open
the door.

When he sees Susan at the desk he can't believe his luck.

					O'BRIEN
		Susan!

She nearly jumps out of her skin.

					SUSAN
		Daniel!

They rush to each other's arms.

					SUSAN
		I don't believe it.  You're here!
		Oh thank God.

					O'BRIEN
		You didn't think I could just leave
		you?

					SUSAN
		I didn't know what was going to
		happen.  I was just so worried
		something was going to happen to
		you.

					O'BRIEN
		What could happen?  I'm the plastic
		man, remember?

She remembers Argon.

					SUSAN
		Oh no!  Argon!  We have to stop him
		before he uses the nanobot!  We have
		to get the nanobot!

					O'BRIEN
		Where is it?

					SUSAN
		Argon's private lab.

					O'BRIEN
		Let's go.

They start for the door when Susan whispers.

					SUSAN
		Wait.  There's a guard.

O'Brien almost laughs.

					O'BRIEN
		He'll never know what hit him.

He grabs the handle and throws open the door.

Susan can't see what he sees, but she knows by his
reaction, it's not good.

					SIM
		Savior-faire is everywhere.

O'Brien backs up into the room, pushed by a very large
gun.

					SIM
		I am Mr. Ubiquitous, ain't I
		O'Brien?

Doby enters behind Sim with several heavily-armed guards.

					SIM
		You know what ubiquitous means,
		don't you?  It means here we go
		again.

Sim laughs very loudly as Argon wheels in, Poppy at his
side.

					ARGON
		Welcome to my home, Mr. O'Brien.  As
		you can see we've been expecting
		you.

Sim laughs again.

					O'BRIEN
		This is wonderfully accommodating of
		you all.  Now I won't have to come
		looking for you.

					SIM
		You were looking for us?

					O'BRIEN
		Yeah, I have something I've been
		meaning to give you.

					SIM
		Yeah, and what might that be?

					O'BRIEN
		An ass-beating.  Would you like
		yours first, Mr. Sim?

Sim cocks his gun and now O'Brien smiles.

					SIM
		Just try it!  Come on!  Do
		something.  Move.  Anything.
		Anything!  Just twitch, blink, I
		dare you!  I double dare you!

O'Brien becomes completely rigid, frozen like a smiling
mannequin.

Sim doesn't know what to do.  He looks around the room
when --

O'Brien's tongue lashes out like a frog's, and snatches
the gun.

					SIM
		That's disgusting.

O'Brien levels the gun at Argon and everyone reacts.

					O'BRIEN
		I should kill you right now for what
		you did to me!

					ARGON
		Maybe you should, but you can't.

Susan screams as Doby grabs her and pins a gun to her
head.

					SUSAN
		Run, Daniel!  Get out of here!

					O'BRIEN
		I'm not leaving without you, Susan!

					ARGON
		You don't have to leave, Mr.
		O'Brien.  We've prepared a wonderful
		room for you.  I think you'll find
		it quite comfortable, so
		comfortable, in fact, I doubt you'll
		ever want to leave.

As he speaks they all pull out white oxygen masks.

					ARGON
		Gardener!

The Gardener appears, sprayer in hand and rushes straight
at O'Brien, aiming the nozzle into his face.

O'Brien tries to back away, to find air but the nozzle is
everywhere pumping a mist that envelops both of them.

Coughing, choking, unable to breathe, the gas begins to
take effect.  O'Brien collapses, the gas-masked figure
standing over the soft rubbery head.

					SUSAN
		Nooo!

Poppy and Argon exchange quiet smiles.

					SUSAN
		What are you going to do to him?

					ARGON
		Do?  Well, I suppose that depends on
		you.

She knows what he wants and her head drops.

INT.  CONSERVATORY

The Gardener adjusts several gas tank valves and we FOLLOW
the feed lines UP TO the top where the humidifier blower
breathes into the sealed cell.

The gasses drift down to the bottom where we see the
supple red puddle of O'Brien.

Floating on the edge of consciousness, O'Brien lifts his
head.  Outside the curved Plexiglas he sees warped faces
staring at him.

					O'BRIEN
		... Susa...

His eyes roll and his head pitches forward, slapping and
flattening out against the plexi.

Dr. Bright touches the glass.

					SUSAN
		What did you use?

					ARGON
		A light mixture of oxygen, dioxide,
		and sodium pentothal.  He'll sleep,
		that's all.

She takes a last look at him, then steadies herself as she
turns to Argon.

					SUSAN
		I give you the design, you let us
		both go.  That's the deal.

Argon nods.

INT.  ARGON'S PRIVATE LAB

Makeo and Nebbleman watch as the new assembler tank
finishes its test run.

The tank looks like a cross between a Giger Sarcophagi and
a dry cleaning machine.

The motors and pumps suddenly stop as the lab grows quiet.

					NEBBLEMAN
		... it's ready.


INT.  SUSAN'S ROOM

Susan is at the desk, her jaw set, her face blank, in a
kind of analytical trance.

INT.  SECURITY BOOTH

Sim and Doby are alone at the control center.

Sim is trying to concentrate on Susan with the same
intensity that she is concentrating with.

He fails.

					SIM
		You know why I hate smart women?

Doby says nothing.

					SIM
		They're always thinking but you
		never know what they're thinking.

INT.  SUSAN'S ROOM

Suddenly she walks to the far wall and turns out the
light.

INT.  SECURITY BOOTH

The monitor goes dark.

					SIM
		Why'd she do that?

INT.  SUSAN'S ROOM

In the dark, she takes her chair and wedges it under the
door handle.  She puts on the protective gloves.

					SUSAN
		All right, Argon.  You want a fight,
		you got one.

Then throws open the freezer unit.

INT.  CONSERVATORY

In a drugged haze, O'Brien searches the edges of his
prison.

His head and limbs move with a strange fluidity, rising
and falling like the molten blebs of a lava lamp.

His fingers find the gas line opening in the blower.

Taking a deep breath, he sticks his arm into the tiny hole
and pulls himself up inside.

We FOLLOW the coils of copper tubing DOWN INTO the
different tanks of gas.

We hear the "TINK, TINK" as he pounds against the metal
canisters.

Unable to hold his breath, he rises through the gas-feeds,
back to the opening where he emerges like a giant red
droplet of water --

Falling and splashing back into his cell.

INT.  POPPY'S BEDROOM

Poppy is helping Argon undress.

					ARGON
		Can you feel it, Poppy?  The
		presence of the moment?  Can you
		feel the weight of its significance?

					POPPY
		Oh yes, Icky.  I can feel it.

					ARGON
		This is what my entire life has been
		directed at, this moment, this
		threshold.

					POPPY
		Okay, arms up, lean forward.

He leans over her shoulder and she holds him up while she
takes his pants off.

					ARGON
		I stand on the verge of man's
		greatest triumph over the forces of
		nature!

Pants down, she sets him back into the chair.

					ARGON
		Gently, gently.  My metamorphosis
		will be more than a simple
		transformation.

She pulls his feet free of each pant leg.

					ARGON
		It will be an ascension.

					POPPY
		I'm so excited, Icarus.

She stands helping him with his robe.

					POPPY
		I was wondering if you'd finished
		considering?

					ARGON
		Considering what?

					POPPY
		What I asked you earlier?

He realizes what she is talking about.

					ARGON
		Poppy, please --

					POPPY
		If you loved me like I loved you?

					ARGON
		Poppy, this is not the time!

There is a KNOCK on the door.

					ARGON
		Yes?

Dr. Makeo enters.

					MAKEO
		We are ready for you, sir.

INT.  HALL

Sim, Doby and several security guards are outside Dr.
Bright's room.

					SIM
		Dr. Bright.  This isn't doing anyone
		any good.

He knocks, yelling at the door.

					SIM
		This ain't very cooperative
		behavior!  I'm going to tell Dr.
		Argon that you ain't cooperating!

He shoves at the door but it doesn't budge.

					SIM
		Come on!  We know you're in there!

No answer.  He turns to Doby in disgust.

					SIM
		Break it down.

INT.  SUSAN'S ROOM

We hear DOBY SLAM against the door, but it holds.  Across
the dark room we see Susan standing at the window.

					SUSAN
		Come on, come on...

She is holding the glass beaker against the iron bars,
infecting them with the replicator fallout.

Body batters the door again.

She drops the beaker and grabs hold of the two bars.  They
bend like thick rods of rubber.

					SUSAN
		Yes!

The next blow vibrates through the entire frame.

Ignoring it, she grabs hold of the stool that was also
taken from the lab.

Stretching out one of the legs, she ties it to one of the
non-polymerized bars.

The DOOR SPLINTERS at the hinge.

Hurrying, she squeezes herself and the stool out between
the rubber bars.

Standing on the ledge, she makes a crucial mistake:  she
looks down.

The roof of the main laboratory is forty feet away.

EXT.  MAIN GATE

Chatting with the other reporters, Spencer looks up and
sees Dr. Bright standing outside the window.

					SPENCER
		Holy shit!  Jumper!

He grabs his cameraman.

					SPENCER
		Get this!  Get this!

INT.  SUSAN'S ROOM

The DOOR SHRIEKS, cracking open.

Out on the edge, Susan closes her eyes.

					SUSAN
		It'll work.  It's got to.  It's got
		to.

Holding tightly to one of the other legs of the stool, she
takes a deep breathe and --

Steps off the ledge.

She falls, the stool stretching surreally, but it is not
pliable enough to reach the roof below.

Halfway down it slows, about to bungee-bouce her back up.

Her body jerks as the leg wrenches from her grip --

Sending her cartwheeling into the open air.

She seems to hang for a moment, watching the stool
shrinking back to the window.

She screams.

EXT.  MAIN GATE

Every camera is locked on her.

EXT.  ROOF

There is nothing between her and the roof except the force
of gravity.  It sucks her down.

Plummeting, helplessly hurtling, she screams again as --

She slams onto the roof, but instead of being splattered
against it --

She bounces up.

The polymerized roof gives like a trampoline, tossing her
lightly until she lays on her back, staring up at the
window, adrenaline bubbling out of her in laughter and
tears.

EXT.  MAIN GATE

The cameraman looks at Spencer.

					SPENCER
		There's a logical explanation.  Has
		to be.

INT.  SUSAN'S ROOM

Sim finds the stool still tied to the bars.

Outside he sees Susan climbing down through a roof access
door into the quarantined lab.

					SIM
		Oh shit.  Where's Argon?

INT.  ARGON'S PRIVATE LAB

Argon sits in his wheelchair, eyes blazing as Nebbleman
draws the nanobiotic fluid into a hypodermic needle.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Of course you understand, Dr. Argon,
		that once the nanobot is inside of
		you, there is no going back --

					ARGON
		Shut up and do it!

Nebbleman forces down a swallow, and sticks the needle
into his neck.

INT.  MAIN LAB

Susan moves through the unreal reality of the polymerized
building.

Her feet sink with every step into the floor.

Door handles bend like kneaded dough.

The concrete formed steps in the stairwell pillow out
under her weight and she loses her balance --

Groping for the rail that also distends.

					SUSAN
		This is insane.

INT.  ARGON'S PRIVATE LAB

Argon sheds his robe and, wearing black bikini briefs, he
starts to climb into the tank.

Makeo tries to help him.

					ARGON
		No!  I'll do it myself!

His legs, withered and atrophied like sticks of beef
jerky, drag behind him.  With obvious effort, he pulls
himself into the chamber.

Wheezing, he can only nod to Dr. Makeo, who closes and
seals the chamber.

Dr. Makeo cranks the pressurized balloon valves, watching
the gauges as the chemicals begin to flow from the mixing
vats into the main chamber.

There is a MUFFLED SCREAM as the chamber begins to fill,
KNOCKING and shaking slightly.

Several nervous glances are exchanged as the gauges begin
to climb.

INT.  CONSERVATORY - CLOSE ON RED TEETH

of a strange serrated shaft.

O'Brien has formed his arm into a massive tire jack which
spans the walls of his transparent cage.

His other arm works the lever with slow determination,
ratcheting up the shaft.

Outside the tank, the polyethylene window begins to bulge
where his hand presses.

O'Brien glares beneath his heavy eyelids.

					O'BRIEN
		Come on, O'Brien --

INT.  MAIN LAB

Susan sneaks out of the stairwell.  Down the hall, she
sees two members of the containment crew in their heavy
protective suits.  Each has a tank strapped to their back,
and is hosing the entire hall with liquid nitrogen.

They do not notice her, as she heads the other way, trying
not to let the floor squeak.

INT.  CONSERVATORY

Above O'Brien, the HUMIDIFIER HISSES, sodium pentothal
wafting down.

He grits his rubbery teeth and cranks the lever.

It CLICKS one more tooth.

The WALLS swell, warping, CREAKING as the lever arcs back.

					O'BRIEN
		Just one more...

Sweat pours down his face, but just as the TOOTH CLICKS,
the arm shaft bends and --

O'Brien collapses into a watery pile.

INT.  MAIN LAB

The TANK RUMBLES as Poppy chews at a perfect nail.

					POPPY
		I can't stand it!  How much longer?

Nebbleman watches his timer for a moment, then counts it
down.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Five, four, three, two -- Drain it!

Makeo throws open the drain valves as Nebbleman monitors
his improved waste system.

					NEBBLEMAN
		It's working, it's working.

Makeo unscrews the tank locks and steps back.

STEAM WHEEZES from the opening as a strange figure
emerges, covered in a Saran Wrap caul.

Hunched over, the figure coughs a gelatinous mass from its
lungs as it tears itself free of the layer of polymerized
sweat.

No longer a debilitated cripple, Argon rises to his feet
as everyone sees the massive physique restored to all its
former glory.

					POPPY
		Oh my God.

His arms reach out to the heavens as he lets loose the
scream that has been trapped for so long inside.

EXT.  MAIN GATE

The SCREAM sends a chill through the reporters.

INT.  LAB HALL

					SUSAN
		Oh no.

The CREW members hear the SCREAM and stop working.  One of
them notices her.

					CREW #1
		Hey!  Hold it!  Stop!

They rush at her.  Searching for any kind of weapon, Susan
grabs a fire extinguisher from the wall.

Swinging it like a club, she lets the first one have it
but --

It, too, has been polymerized and the red tank bounces off
his skull.

					SUSAN
		Nuts.

					CREW #2
		Lady, you're in serious trouble!

He throws her back against the wall, which she springs off
of, kicking him in the balls --

Finally finding something solid.

Screaming, he falls to his knees, his hose spewing liquid
nitrogen.

The second man grabs her, causing her to drop the
extinguisher into the puddle of foaming nitrogen.

They wrestle until she tears herself free, snatching hold
of the extinguisher.  She whips around --

Clubbing him again, but this time the frozen TANK EXPLODES
over his head, frothing like a shattered beer bottle.

He falls to the soft mat-like floor.


INT.  ARGON'S PRIVATE LAB

Sim and Doby emerge from the elevator and head for the
lab.

He hears POPPY GIGGLING and Argon's new BOOMING VOICE.

					ARGON (O.S.)
		It's fantastic to be plastic!

Sim pushes into the lab and sees Argon, still wearing
bikini briefs, bouncing Poppy into the air with his huge
rubberized arms.

					SIM
		Holy...

Argon hears him.

					ARGON
		Exactly right, Mr. Sim.  You have
		entered one of the holiest places on
		Earth.

He catches Poppy and she cuddles against his chest.

					ARGON
		This lab shall forever be
		consecrated ground and you, Mr. Sim,
		stand here a witness to man's
		ultimate triumph:  the
		polymerization of human flesh!

Nebbleman is behind him, using a razor to cut his hair
like Susan did to Daniel.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Sir, please try to hold still.

					SIM
		So, I guess it worked.

					ARGON
		'Worked'?  'Worked'?!

Argon laughs.

					ARGON
		A watch works, Mr. Sim.  A
		bureaucrat works.  What transpired
		here cannot be measured by the word
		'work.'

His chest swells, as if he were posing down for Mr.
Universe.

					ARGON
		What you see before you is the
		culmination of evolution.  The
		realization of the one driving
		desire at the heart of all great
		human endeavors; the desire for
		immortality!  The polymerization of
		human flesh is no mere molecular
		transmutation, no simple scientific
		procedure; it is nothing short of a
		miracle!  A miracle that marks the
		ascension of man from the finite to
		the infinite!  From the transient to
		the everlasting!

His perfect white teeth high-beam the room.  Poppy stares,
adulation oozing from every pore.

					POPPY
		Oh, Icky...

Argon kisses her, hard.

					SIM
		Look, I don't mean to rain on
		everyone's ascension here, but we
		got a little problem.

					ARGON
		Speak.

					SIM
		Dr. Bright has escaped.

Argon breathes deep, controlling his temper.

					ARGON
		If you let her reach those reporters
		outside the main gate, Mr. Sim --

His hand whip-wraps around Sim's throat.

					SIM
		... gurk... understood.

INT.  MAIN LAB

Wearing one of the protective suits, Susan pushes through
part of a containment crew, heading for the elevator.

Most of the CREW is surrounding the CAPTAIN.

					CREW #3
		The whole west wing is gone,
		Captain.

					CREW #4
		It's in the phone lines --

					CREW #5
		It's spreading to the underground
		pipes --

					CREW #6
		We gotta get out of here!

The Captain notices Susan.

					CAPTAIN
		Hey!  Where are you going?

Thinking fast, she points to her crotch as though needing
to go to the bathroom.  The Captain nods.

INT.  CONSERVATORY

O'Brien is deflated, head cradled in an arm coil.  His
other arm is raised against the perspex wall.

He has turned his finger into a glass cutter, moving it
around and around in a slow deliberate circle.

INT.  POPPY'S BEDROOM

Argon stands before the mirror wearing a new black suit,
like O'Brien's.

					ARGON
		Excellent work, Dr. Nebbleman.  You
		have outdone yourself.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Thank you, sir.

Poppy steps behind him, running her hands over his body.

					POPPY
		Oh, Icky, you know what latex does
		to me...

Someone KNOCKS at the door.

					ARGON
		Enter.

Sim does.

					SIM
		Dr. Argon, everything's starting to
		come apart here.  You hired me to
		take care of these matters of
		security and I am trying, but
		elements are making my job
		impossible.

					ARGON
		Have you found Dr. Bright?

					SIM
		No.  The captain of the containment
		crew is closing down the main lab.
		He says the area has got to be
		evacuated.

					NEBBLEMAN
		He's probably right, sir, the
		building is probably going to
		collapse under its own weight.

					SIM
		And if we evacuate, what do you want
		to do with O'Brien?

					ARGON
		It'll be better for us if he simply
		disappears.  The gardener will know
		what to do.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Wait, wait, can I at least have his
		body?

					ARGON
		Donated to science.  Perfect.

INT.  CONSERVATORY

The glass cutter tracing the circle has completely lost
its shape; his FINGER SQUEAKING against the Plexiglas.

The Gardener leads Sim, Doby, and Nebbleman towards
O'Brien's geranium.

					SIM
		Can I ask you something?  Do you
		ever take that mask off?

The Gardener shakes his head.

					SIM
		Doesn't it get hot?

The Gardener nods.

At the end of the path, they reach O'Brien's tank.
O'Brien sleepily lifts his head.

					SIM
		Sorry, pal.  Check out time.  Moral
		of story; next life, mind your own
		business.

The Gardener begins to shut off the valves.  The gauges
drop to zero as the gas OPENING at the top of the tank
RASPS and goes SILENT.

Immediately, O'Brien knows that he is going to suffocate.

He screams and pounds on the Plexi.

They all watch as his soft rubbery fists mash uselessly
against the walls of the tank.

					SIM
		Even a plastic man's gotta breathe,
		eh, Doc?

Nebbleman is too entranced to reply.

At the far end of the conservatory, the door swings open.

Sim glances over his shoulder and sees a member of the
containment Crew striding toward them.

					SIM
		What are you doing here?  You're
		supposed to be looking for the
		woman.

					CREWMAN
		We found her.

The voice is muffled by the headgear.

					SIM
		What?  Did you say you found her?

Body catches the scent of something fishy.  He turns to
the Crew Member.

Behind Sim, O'Brien sucks at the thinning air, his punches
growing weaker.

The Crew Member lunges at Sim but Doby is ready --

Seizing hold of the small body while tearing off the
helmet, revealing Susan Bright.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Susan!

					SIM
		Wellie well, Dr. Bright.  You're
		just in time.

O'Brien's eyes bulge when he sees her, but he knows it is
too late.  His hands press against the plexi, his eyes
melt into silicon tears.

					SUSAN
		Nooo!

Like a wild animal she bites Doby, twisting free just long
enough to jump at Sim and --

Snatch the gun from his belt.

Sim grabs her wrist and they fight for control until Susan
manages to squeezes off a SINGLE SHOT --

That punches a hole in O'Brien's tank.

The hole is tiny, but it is all Plastic Man needs.

He dives at it, thinning to a pencil, driving himself
through.

He emerges from the other side, like a genie freed from
his lamp.

					SIM
		Uh-oh.

Afraid now, Sim twists Susan's arm behind her back and
yanks the gun free.

Nebbleman cowers behind Doby.

The Gardener slips away, hurrying for his spray can.

O'Brien faces Sim, his eyes blazing with malice
aforethought.

Sim hides behind Susan, holding the gun to her, barely
able to see over her shoulder.

					SIM
		Here we go again, eh, O'Brien?  I
		got the gun, I got the girl.  All
		you got is some rubber underwear!

He laughs, feeling a little better.

O'Brien points a single finger that creeps slowly at Sim.

					O'BRIEN
		I've been thinking about you, Mr.
		Sim.

Sim watches it as the tip shapes into a fish hook.

					O'BRIEN
		All the different ways that I could
		kill you.

					SIM
		Oh yeah?

He aims the gun at O'Brien.

					SIM
		Maybe you're ready to find out if
		that hide of yours is bulletproof?

					O'BRIEN
		The question is, are you?

Sim thumbs back the hammer.

					O'BRIEN
		Because once you pull the trigger,
		if that bullet doesn't kill me, we
		both know, you're a dead man.

Sim's hand shakes.

					SIM
		I ain't afraid of no plastic man.

BOOM.

The bullet sinks into O'Brien's chest, pushing his flesh
back with a shrieking stretch, projecting it out behind
him impossibly, until --

The bullet stops.

O'Brien looks back at Sim whose eyes fill with fear.

Susan dives to the ground as the bullet comes rushing back
and --

With a resounding whip crack, hits Sim right in the chest.

Sim sinks to the ground, dead.

Doby howls and rushes O'Brien who turns his fists into
sledgehammers.

Nebbleman bolts but Susan snatches hold of him.

					SUSAN
		Do you know the best thing about
		having you as an assistant, Nigel?

She wrings the lapel of his lab coat.

					SUSAN
		Was knowing that if you ever pissed
		me off, I could always kick your
		ass.

She winds up just as Nebbleman's eyes cross.

					NEBBLEMAN
		Ohhh...

He faints into a bruise colored bush.  She shakes her
head.

O'Brien pounds the sound of chirping birds into Doby's
skull as Susan sees the Gardener rushing behind him.

					SUSAN
		Daniel!

But the spray can is already HISSING, pumping out deadly
clouds of red gas.

					O'BRIEN
		Not this time, pal!

O'Brien clasps his hands together and forms a giant
bellows that sucks up all the gas.

					O'BRIEN
		Let's see how you like it.

He shoves the nozzle of the bellows into the filter of his
gas mask and squeezes.

The dark glass eyes fill with smoke as the Gardener
thrashes around trying to get the mask off.

He stumbles, flailing wildly and smashes into the
seamonkey geranium.

The little creatures swarm all over him as he collapses to
the ground.

O'Brien turns just as Susan rushes into his arms.

					O'BRIEN
		You saved my life.

					SUSAN
		Did you think I could just leave
		you...?

They hold each other tightly, feeling the volatile
electrons charging the air, creating an intermolecular
bond between them.

					O'BRIEN
		Susie... I...

					SUSAN
		You don't have to say anything,
		Daniel.  I'm a scientist.  I know
		what's happening.  I recognize the
		classic symptoms.  Dizziness,
		shortness of breath, sweating
		palms... I can feel my adrenals
		secreting, my parasympathetic
		nervous system quivering, the
		estradiol coursing through my entire
		body...

Her lips move closer to his.

					SUSAN
		And I know there's only one way to
		cure it...

She kisses him and almost melts the polymerized lips right
off his face.

The kiss is so intense, it shakes the entire building
around them.

EXT.  ARGON TOWER

The metal frame supporting the tower has finally been
affected by the replicators.

Two of the legs squash out causing the other legs to bend.

INT.  CONSERVATORY

They break the kiss, realizing that the building is
actually shaking.

					O'BRIEN
		What in the...?

					SUSAN
		Oh shit, the meltdown.  It's spread
		to the tower.

					O'BRIEN
		We've got to get the nanobot.

					SUSAN
		It's too late.  Argon injected it.

					O'BRIEN
		You mean he's polymerized, like me?

She nods.

					O'BRIEN
		That means the nanobot is still
		inside him.

					SUSAN
		Yes.

					O'BRIEN
		What would happen if I threw him
		into the core?

					SUSAN
		The same thing I suppose.

That's all O'Brien needs to hear.

INT.  POPPY'S BEDROOM

What is happening beneath the red rubber sheets of Poppy's
bed is beyond anything ever pictured in the Kama Sutra.

Poppy screams as the earth moves again.

Argon sticks his head out.

					ARGON
		Did you feel that?

					POPPY
		Did I?  I've been waiting for that
		for years.

					ARGON
		Not that.

The building shivers and leans again.

					ARGON
		That.  It's the fall-out.  We have
		to get out of here.

EXT.  ARGON TOWER

The tower leans a few more degrees as outside the lab,
bedlam erupts.

The containment crew and security force scatter from the
building like rats pouring from a sinking ship.

EXT.  MAIN GATE

Spencer grabs hold of the fence, watching the tower lean.

					SPENCER
		We gotta get in there!

He notices that the fence is warm.

					SPENCER
		Hey, what's up with the fence?

He pulls back and it stretches like gum.

INT.  ARGON'S OFFICE

O'Brien and Susan are arguing in the office.  The floor
weirdly tilts under them.

					SUSAN
		Daniel, just forget Argon.  Let's
		get out of here.  We'll find another
		way to stop the waste.

					O'BRIEN
		We don't have time to argue, Susan.

He's dragging her toward the door to the roof.

					O'BRIEN
		I'm going to set you down outside.
		You have to get over to the
		reporters outside the gate.  We have
		to warn people what's happening.

She doesn't like being dragged anywhere.

					SUSAN
		You're not going after Argon!

					O'BRIEN
		I have to!

					SUSAN
		Do the words 'hero fantasies' mean
		anything to you?  How about
		'infantile dementia'?

That hurts.

					O'BRIEN
		Maybe you're right... but so what.
		I'm going to beat the snot out of
		him.

She is about to continue the fight when the elevator opens
and ends it.

Argon and Poppy get out.

					ARGON
		How apropos.

					O'BRIEN
		Ain't it.

The men begin circling each other.

					ARGON
		As you can see I am a new man, just
		like you.

					O'BRIEN
		Oh no.  You're not like me.  In
		fact, I'm betting you're the same
		greedy, remorseless, egomaniacal bad
		guy you always were.

O'Brien pumps up a huge fist.  His forearm then goes slack
as he begins swinging the fist like a medieval morning
star.

					ARGON
		It remains to be seen who is the
		good guy and who is the bad guy.
		History is written by the victor.

					O'BRIEN
		The only history I'm gonna write is
		your obituary!

He lunges, the fist arcing down as Argon awkwardly
counters --

The blow connects snapping Argon's head back.

					POPPY
		Icky!

					SUSAN
		Get him, Daniel!  Knock his block
		off!

Poppy hisses at Susan as the two women now edge toward one
another.

O'Brien presses his attack, battering and bludgeoning
Argon --

Every blow landing with a loud rubber smack that
reverberates through Argon's teeth.

Desperate, the villain flails back, long ropy limbs trying
to tie O'Brien up as --

His extending legs drive both men flying backwards --

Crashing through the enormous vista-windows.

					SUSAN
		Daniel!

EXT.  MAIN GATE

The reporters are lifting the fence and scrambling inside.

Spencer hears the WINDOW EXPLODE and sees the black and
red intertwined bodies --

Still locked in combat, pummeling, kicking, biting --

Cometing straight to the earth.

Ka-boing.

The force of the fall blasts them apart each rebounding
into the air --

O'Brien flipping, righting himself as he lands on his
feet.

Argon quickly recovers.

Spencer does not.

					SPENCER
		That-that's not possible.

INT.  ARGON'S OFFICE

The two women smell blood.

					SUSAN
		Okay, Barbie, let's get this over
		with.

					POPPY
		Don't worry, four eyes.

From her bag, Poppy whips out a razor knife.

					POPPY
		It's not going to take long.

EXT.  GROUNDS

O'Brien and Argon have at one another again.

Spencer stands in the white wash of his cameraman's light.

					SPENCER
		We are just outside Argon Labs and I
		can, without fear of hyperbole, say
		that what is happening behind me is
		the most unbelievably fantastic
		thing the world has ever seen.

Argon is learning quickly, morphing his body the way
O'Brien does.

					SPENCER
		Two men, if they are indeed really
		men, locked in mortal combat.

Pure Jack-the-King-Kirby pugilistics.

					SPENCER
		One of them apparently the dangerous
		radical environmentalist authorities
		have been searching for.  The other
		appears to be Icarus Argon, or at
		least Icarus Argon fifteen years
		ago.

Fists flying, blasted bodies hurling through the air only
to bounce right back.

					SPENCER
		There are times, singular fleeting
		moments when a man glimpses an event
		which he knows is going to change
		the world.  Although I do not fully
		understand what is happening here, I
		sense that this fight is somehow
		about the future of the planet.

Argon suddenly realizes that O'Brien is leading the battle
closer and closer to the main lab.

					ARGON
		I know what you're doing.

					O'BRIEN
		You mean besides kicking your ass?!

					ARGON
		You think you can use me to stop the
		meltdown.

O'Brien's face reveals nothing.

					ARGON
		It's not going to happen.

His arms shoot up to the helicopter pad, but O'Brien snags
hold of him.

					O'BRIEN
		Not so fast, Icky, I promised you an
		ass-beating and I'm just getting
		started.

Boom.  Fist-imprinted in the middle of Argon's face.

INT.  ARGON'S OFFICE

Poppy slashes viciously at Susan, driving her back into a
corner where --

She ducks behind the statue of Icarus and shoves --

Tipping it over onto Poppy, who screams falling back as
the statue smashes to the ground.

Susan grabs one of the broken arms and backhands Poppy
before she gets to her feet.

Susan is about to finish her off when the building tilts
again throwing her, crashing over the desk.

EXT.  GROUNDS

The TOWER SQUEAKS again, legs bending, giving way,
throwing the crowd into a panic.

If O'Brien even notices we can't tell.  His attack is an
unrelenting fury --

Fists like jackhammers --

Like wrecking balls and ballistic missiles.

Bomb after bomb rearranges Argon's face.  His body growing
soft and supple, his knees turning to syrup as --

O'Brien winds up the haymaker.

					O'BRIEN
		Well, Argon, according to you this
		makes me the good guy, don't it?

Ka-boom.  Lights out.

Argon hits the ground with a wet smack.

INT.  ARGON'S OFFICE

Poppy is up first, delivering a stiletto-heeled kick to
Susan's face, knocking her out.

The building trembles again and Poppy forgets Susan and
hurries to the roof door.

EXT.  GROUNDS

The crowd has burst apart, running from the building,
while O'Brien shoulders Argon and heads for the main lab
floor.

INT.  ROOF STAIRWELL

Poppy pushes outside to the roof.  The helicopter has
shifted toward the tilted edge.

She climbs into the pilot's seat.

INT.  LAB STAIRWELL

O'Brien climbs the polymerized stairs in giant steps.  He
is heading for Susan's lab when --

Argon's eyes snap open.

INT.  ARGON'S OFFICE

Susan wakes up as the BUILDING continues to GROAN.

She goes to the elevator but it no longer works.  She then
sees the open roof door.

INT.  HALL

Argon attacks with snake-like speed, whip-wrapping both
arms like twin boa constrictors around O'Brien's neck.

A small "gak" spits out as O'Brien feels his windpipe
pinch.

EXT.  ROOF

The helicopter BLADES begin to CHOP as Susan flings open
the roof door.

INT.  HALL

O'Brien throws himself backward against the wall, trying
to smash Argon off him, but --

Everything is polymerized.

They bounce and roll into a smaller lab, Argon wrapped
around O'Brien like a creeping-ivy vine.

O'Brien thrashes through the room, slamming into stainless
steel scientific equipment --

Only to bounce off them like they were nerf toys.

Desperate, he hurls them both at a large window but --

The polymerized glass balloons out, both bodies visible
inside the bulging bubble that --

Snaps back, slinging them across the lab and out into the
hall.

EXT.  ROOF

Susan tries to climb into the helicopter when the tower
tilts more violently than ever.

The helicopter slides out hooking its landing gear on the
guard rail, flipping up out of control, killing the
engine.

Thrown free, Susan slides toward the same edge where the
helicopter dangles precariously.

Below them is the roof of the main lab.

INT.  MAIN LAB

O'Brien falls to his knees.  He is ready to give up when
he sees something.

His face as red as his suit, his breath a tiny rasp, he
begins to crawl.

					ARGON
		Die!  Die!  Damn you!  Why don't you
		just die!

The world spins and goes spotty as he collapses.

					ARGON
		Yes!

But his hands keep going, cartoon fingers groping down the
hall toward --

The tank of liquid nitrogen still laying near the broken
fire extinguisher.

The hands take hold of it --

					ARGON
		No!  Oh no!

And come rushing back like the cavalry.

Argon screams as the nitrogen sprays out, soaking his
arms, freezing them solid.

A little frosted, O'Brien slips his head free while Argon
tries to crack apart his arms.

He looks up and sees O'Brien aiming the nitrogen again.

					ARGON
		No.  O'Brien!  Don't!  Please!

O'Brien lets him have it, full frosting blast.

He grabs hold of him and with two huge steps bursts into
Susan's lab.

INT.  SUSAN'S LAB

The room pulses with a seething sense of sickness as
everything turns to gray slime like a rotting banana
turning brown.

Fluorescent lights drip like stalactites from the drooping
drop-ceiling.

Equipment hangs like swamp-moss, or sits in puddles like
melting chocolate.

The center of the room is a crater, the floor sagging
limply like a wet napkin.

At the bottom of the crater where the assembler tank used
to be is a pond of pale glowing goo.

Argon cracks his jaw loose.  They stand at the edge of the
crater.

					ARGON
		Please, O'Brien, don't do this to
		me!  I'll give you anything you want!

					O'BRIEN
		Yeah, I'm going to finish what you
		started --

O'Brien sees the finger slither out like a black tentacle
around his leg.  O'Brien slips free and --

Hurls Argon out over the crater.

Argon screams as his finger reaches for the soft pipes
above the drop-ceiling.

The finger finds a hold just before Argon hits the white
pool.  He bounces, dangling above it.

					ARGON
		You can't do this!  You owe me,
		O'Brien.  I made you plastic!  I
		made you!

					O'BRIEN
		That's right.  And making me was the
		biggest mistake you ever made!

O'Brien's hand sears at us shaping into a huge pair of
scissors.

Argon screams as the scissors clip through the finger
strand --

Dropping Argon into the pond of moon-milk.

Almost immediately there is an reaction.

The pool sizzles and begins to swell into a single
volcanic bubble.

O'Brien whirls and runs.

EXT.  ROOF

Susan carefully slides to the edge, reaching out to help
Poppy.

					SUSAN
		Grab my hand!

INT.  CONSERVATORY

The building is shaking as Nebbleman wakes up.

INT.  LAB

The bubble continues to swell.

INT.  HALL

O'Brien races through the rubbery hall.

EXT.  ROOF

Poppy is struggling to get out of the safety harness
when --

INT.  MAIN LAB

The bubble bursts.

INT.  HALL

The force of the blast launches O'Brien into the air and
he recoils tucking himself into a ball --

Super-bouncing down the hall.

EXT.  ROOF

The building shivers from the explosion and the helicopter
pitches back.

Swinging out from Susan who loses her balance and slips.

INT.  SUSAN'S LAB

The chain reaction spreads out from the crater as
molecules shift, rebounding, changing into an ionic
solid --

Like blown glass that is cooled too quickly --

Shivering with the sound of CRACKING ICE FLOES.

EXT.  ROOF

The tower tips again, ready to fall at any moment.

Susan clings to the rail while inside the helicopter Poppy
is no longer struggling.

She is staring up at the enormous full moon above her.

					POPPY
		Icky...?

EXT.  MAIN LAB

O'Brien dives from the lab as part of it collapses with a
shower of CRASHING GLASS.

EXT.  ROOF

The rail gives out and the helicopter falls.

It seems for a moment to drift like a snowflake as Poppy
reaches at the moon.

					POPPY
		Plastic means forever...

It hits the roof and shatters through it as though it were
sheet candy.

Susan is thrown out over the edge dangling from the rail
as --

The helicopter shatters through the building with an ear-
bleeding CRASH before its metal carcass bursts into
flames.

As Susan clings to the rail, she looks up and sees
Nebbleman.  He stares at her through his broken glasses.

					NEBBLEMAN
		This is all your fault, Susan...

He bends toward her clutching fingers.

EXT.  GROUNDS

O'Brien is searching everywhere for Susan.

					O'BRIEN
		Susan!  Susan!

EXT.  ROOF

Nebbleman is peeling up her fingers, when --

The tower begins to fall.

With a final METAL SHRIEK the legs give out completely.
Still holding on, Susan falls with the tower.

Nebbleman's eyes bulge as he is thrown over the rail and
into the fiery abyss...

O'Brien looks up as the tower arcs down and sees Susan
clinging, dangling, about to be buried beneath it.

					O'BRIEN
		Noooo!

A red rubber rocket sears across the night sky.

Susan's grip fails and she drops into --

O'Brien, who has flattened himself out like a giant luge
chute.

She slides away as the tower collapses into the fiery
oblivion, falling lightly into the soft waiting arms of...

					SUSAN
		My hero...

They kiss.

We RISE ABOVE them, REACHING UP FOR the moon in all its
luminous glory, WATCHING as it morphs into a blazing sun.

We PAN DOWN TO a new day.

EXT.  CITY STREET

O'Brien is carrying a brown bag filled with groceries.
Susan is walking beside him.

She suddenly starts laughing.

					SUSAN
		God, when we were in that store all
		I could think about was that one
		time, when we were in school, and
		you attacked that little kid who
		wanted some cereal.  Do you remember
		that?

					O'BRIEN
		I remember I was trying to help...

					SUSAN
		God, what a fight that was.

					O'BRIEN
		We were different people then.

					SUSAN
		Do you suppose that was our problem?
		We met before our time?  I think
		that happens a lot.  People, events,
		planets all just circling each other
		waiting for that moment when
		everything clicks into place.

O'Brien is no longer listening to her, staring at
something like an attack dog.

					SUSAN
		That moment of synchronicity where
		everything seems to work out just
		the way it should.

Walking straight toward them is the Litterbug.

					SUSAN
		I suppose if there were a god, it
		would be those moments that would
		make me believe in her... or him.

Just like he did before, the Litterbug gulps from a
styrofoam cup.

					SUSAN
		Daniel, what is...

She sees what he is staring at just as the Litterbug
crumbles the cup and pitches it into the bushes.

					SUSAN
		Oh no.

The Litterbug continues toward them.

					SUSAN
		Daniel, please, don't, not today,
		it's such a nice day...

She watches him bracing for the attack, jaw working,
hackles raising, fists clenching.

					SUSAN
		Aww shit.

The Litterbug reaches them, shoves his way past and
O'Brien --

Lets him go.  He smiles.

					O'BRIEN
		You're right.  It is a nice day.

He walks over and picks up the cup himself.

					O'BRIEN
		I can throw it out.  No big deal.

She can't believe it.  His arm shoots out and a moment
later whaps back; the cup is gone.

She smiles and he wraps his arm around her.

					SUSAN
		Things do change.

					O'BRIEN
		I guess they do.

They stroll on and we GLIDE BACK in the direction his arm
shot --

Where we see the Litterbug wedged head first into a wire
meshed trash can, kicking like an inverted cockroach, the
styrofoam cup stuffed in his mouth.

And we CLOSE ON the sign --

"Keep litter in its place."

								    FADE OUT.

					THE END


