

Spacejacked (1997)

                                                   Directed by 
                                                   Jeremiah Cullinane
                                                                   
                                                    

                                                   Writing credits 
                                                   Brendan Broderick
                                                                  
                                                   Daniella Purcell
                                                                  
                                                    
                                                   Genre: Action / Sci-Fi 
                Tagline: The cruise of the millenium just changed course.
                                        
                                       Cast overview: 
                                       Corbin Bernsen
                                                     .... 
                                                        Barnes 
                                       Steve Bond
                                                     .... 
                                                        Taylor 
                                       Shawn Brewster
                                                     .... 
                                                        Brayson 
                                       Donncha Crowley
                                                     .... 
                                                        Katz 
                                       Vincent Dunlea
                                                     .... 
                                                        Warren Wayne 
                                       Richard Farrell (I)
                                                     .... 
                                                        Mr. Putnam 
                                       Feidhlim Hillary
                                                     .... 
                                                        Vincent Miles 
                                       Matt Holland
                                                     .... 
                                                        Mac 
                                       Jonathon Jeffers
                                                     .... 
                                                        VR Cop 
                                       Des Kenny
                                                     .... 
                                                        Gibson 
                                       Conor Maguire
                                                     .... 
                                                        Phillips 
                                       Anita McFarlane
                                                     .... 
                                                        Anna Koros 
                                       Frank Melia
                                                     .... 
                                                        Carlo 
                                       Brian Monaghan
                                                     .... 
                                                        VR Caveman 
                                       Bill Murphy (V)
                                                     .... 
                                                        Jack 
                                       Mick Nolan
                                                     .... 
                                                        Mr. Bohm 
                                       Ciara O'Callaghan
                                                     .... 
                                                        Monica Miles 
                                       Amanda Pays
                                                     .... 
                                                        Dawn 
                                       Rico Shea
                                                     .... 
                                                        Freighter Pilot 
                                       Noelle Swan
                                                     .... 
                                                        Ms. Marshall 
                                        

                       MPAA: Rated R for sexuality, and for violence and language. 
                       Runtime: USA:89
                       Country: USA 
                       Language: English 
                       Color: Color 
                       Sound Mix: Ultra Stereo 
                       Certification: USA:R 


FADE IN

The vast infinity of space - 

ROLL CREDITS - DRIFTERS

Soon the silhouette of a PLANET fills the screen -

The sun breaks slowly across the arc of the planet -

END CREDITS - 

As the light increases we see the planet is EARTH - 

A TITLE reads "EARTH - 2070 A.D."

Soon afterward the moon can be seen in the distance -

				WOMAN'S VOICE(V.O.)
		Ahh, the space age.  Must have been
		a thrilling time to be alive.  All 
		the hopes for a better tomorrow, all 
		the dreams of inhabiting new worlds...

Soon a SPACESHIP enters the frame - only the rear of the craft is visible at first
as it heads into space - 

				WOMAN'S VOICE(V.O.)
		It's amazing they even made it out
		this far, considering what they had
		to work with.  Guess it really was
		one giant leap...a hundred years ago.

Soon the side of the ship becomes more and more visible - 

				WOMAN'S VOICE(V.O.)
		But I guess after that first leap, 
		things just weren't as exciting.  
		How much do you need to know about
		a place like the moon? It's cold,
		silent...

The camera begins to PAN the side of the ship - 

				WOMAN'S VOICE(V.O.)
		But it sure was a beautiful place to
		visit, or so they said.  At least if 
		you could afford it...guess it all 
		boils down to money in the long run -

As the camera PANS across the side of the ship, we see it's name - STAR PRINCESS ,
written in a slick, commercial 
style - 

				WOMAN'S VOICE(V.O.)
		Me, I just felt lucky to be along 
		for the ride.

INT SPACESHIP LOUNGE - NIGHT

We see DAWN MURPHY, an attractive girl in her late 20's gazing out the window of
the lounge - 

Just then MAC, a fully articulated human android, dressed in a futuristic,
concierge-like outfit, approaches Dawn -

She turns to face him, and his eye scans a small, computerized PIN on her jacket -
he looks up to her - 

				MAC
		How are you this evening, Dawn
		Murphy?

Dawn smiles at the android, looks around as if a little embarrassed, then looks
back out the window - 

				DAWN
		I'm fine.

				MAC
		Congratulations on your...recent
		award.

				DAWN
		Thank you.	

				MAC
		Is there anything I can help
		you with?

				DAWN
		No, just enjoying the view.

				MAC 
		Well, there's no better to way 
		to see the world, than with us.		
			
				DAWN
		So I've been told.

				MAC
		Well if you need anything, please
		feel free to ask me.  Just a 
		reminder we have fabulous cuisine
		available 24 hours in the earthrise
		room, and a large selection of
		vintage wines here in our ship bar.

Dawn then looks at Mac - 

				DAWN
		Thank you, I'm fine.

Mac smiles at Dawn - 
		
				MAC
		Enjoy your trip with us.

Mac then heads off - Dawn turns and looks at him - 

We see the lounge of the ship - sleek and luxurious, decorated in rich fabrics and
material - behind the bar we see the bartender JACK, a burly man in his 40's,
cleaning some glasses -

Mac walks by a table where a couple is sitting - they are DELBERT MILES, 49, an
overweight man with slicked back hair and a gaudy ring on his hand - across from
him is MONICA MILES, 22, a buxom, somewhat bored-looking blonde brandishing an
enormous diamond WEDDING RING -

Delbert puts down his drink and grabs Mac as he passes - 

				DELBERT
		Hey, chief...

Mac stops and looks at the couple, scanning the pins on their chests - 

				MAC
		Hello, Delbert and Monica Miles.
		Congratulations on your recent
		wedding - 

				DELBERT
		Yeah yeah look never mind all that,
			(shakes his drink)		 
		let me get another one of these, lots
		of ice, and don't be stingy with 
		the whiskey this time ok?

Jack listens in the background to the conversation - 

Mac then looks at Monica - 

				MAC
		Certainly, and anything for you
		Monica?

				MONICA
		I'm fine, thank you.

				DELBERT
		Oh, and bring out some more of 
		those little baked things and
		some hot mustard.

				MAC
		Certainly.  I will now process
		your request, and I hope you're
		enjoying your trip with us.

Mac walks away - Monica stares into her drink - 

				MONICA
		I don't like him calling me by my
		name, it gives me the creeps.

				MAC
		Yeah, I wish he'd put a sock in 
		it already.

Delbert downs the remainder of his drink - Monica looks sullenly into her glass -
Delbert notices this, puts his drink down - 

				MONICA
		What's wrong baby?  You haven't 
		said a whole lot lately...

Delbert picks up her hand and kisses it - Monica doesn't respond - 
				MONICA
		I'm homesick.

				DELBERT
		Homesick?  It's only been two
		days!

				MONICA
		We should have gone to Nassau. At
		least we could go swimming, lie on
		the beach.

				DELBERT
		Ah hell we can always do that. Listen
		believe me, once we get to the 
		moon, your tone is going to change.

				MONICA
		How is it going to be different
		from this?  Go see some boring
		footprint under glass?

				DELBERT
		Look you were the one who wanted
		to do something different, something
		to tell all your friends.  Any
		chump can go to Nassau.  

Delbert scans the room, littered with the beautiful people of the times - 

				DELBERT
		Look around you baby, we're rubbing
		elbows with royalty, oil sheiks,
		this is class.  You'll be envied
		by everyone. 

				MONICA
		I guess so.

				DELBERT
		Besides I can't wait to tee off
		on the sea of tranquillity. That
		should shore up that prick Hank
		Drexler.

Monica stares blankly back at him - 

				DELBERT
		You know?  The guy at the club I
		was telling you about?

Monica takes a sip of her drink, and puts it down - 

				MONICA
		I still say we should have gone
		to Nassau.

INT SHIP BRIDGE - NIGHT

PAN an array of blinking controls and sensors - seated at the console is the ship's
first mate, RYAN TAYLOR, a good-looking man in his 30's, examining them - 

Soon the ship's captain approaches, CAPTAIN REYNOLDS, a distinguished-looking man
in his fifties -

				REYNOLDS
		How's everything looking?

				TAYLOR
		Finishing up the diagnostic,
		everything checks out normal,
		we still have to take a look
		at the starboard suite on B 
		deck.  We've relocated her
		and she doesn't seem to be
		that upset about it.

Seated across the bridge, second mate ALEX BARNES turns and  addresses them - 

				BARNES
		Why should she, it's her fault.  
		All guests are told not to eat 
		in zero gravity, but she just 
		wanted to have fun I guess, 
		didn't realize what a grain of 
		salt can do to sophisticated
		machinery.

				REYNOLDS
		Well, I guess she figures she's
		paying for it.

				BARNES
		Ain't it the truth. Must be good
		to be rich.

Reynolds takes a look at his watch - 

				REYNOLDS
		All right, I'm headed down to 
		engineering.  If you gentlemen
		need me, that's where I'll be.

				TAYLOR
		Yes sir.
Reynolds leaves the room - 

Barnes then gets up and stretches - 

				BARNES
		Well I guess there's no time
		like the present.  I'll go 
		run a check on that room, just 
		to show we go that extra mile
		for our guests.

				TAYLOR
		Sounds like you've been talking
		to Mac too much.

Barnes heads toward the door - 

				BARNES
		Yeah.  I think he's developing
		a crush on me.

Taylor smiles as Barnes exits - he then turns his attention to a screen  - 

POV he cursors down to a command - "LIFE POD STATUS: ENGAGE"

We see him select that option - 

INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Two PORTERS struggle with the luggage of ANNA KOROS, the thirtysomething heir to a
shipping fortune, who follows behind - 

				ANNA
		Now look will you please be
		careful with those!  They cost 
		more than you make in a year.

The two porters look at each other as one unlocks the door - 

Anna takes a CELLULAR phone out of her purse - 

				ANNA
		When will my original room be
		ready again?

				1ST PORTER
		I'm sure they'll notify you as
		soon as they're done ma'am.
				ANNA
		Shuffling back and forth!  I feel
		like I'm traveling coach!

She dials the phone from the hallway watching the two men enter the room - 

				ANNA
		Put them near the window!
		And be careful!

Anna dials the phone and puts it to her ear - she then does a double take down the
hall - 

POV We see an impeccably groomed, movie star handsome WARREN WAYNE exit his
neighboring suite room and lock the door - 

Anna's jaw drops as she slowly lowers the phone - 

Wayne puts his key in his pocket and gracefully slicks his hand across his
perfectly combed hair before heading in the direction of Anna - 
 
Anna watches him approach - 

				ANNA
			(to herself)
		Oh my God...

Wayne approaches and smiles at Anna - 

				WAYNE
		Evening.

				ANNA
		It can't be.

				WAYNE
		Excuse me?

				ANNA
		You're Warren Wayne.

Warren slows down, somewhat reluctantly - 

				WAYNE
		Uh, yes I am.  And you are?

				ANNA 
		Anna Koros.
She sensually extends her hand, Warren shakes it - 

				WAYNE
		Koros, as in...Koros?  Dimitri
		Koros?

				ANNA
		My grandfather.  My God, I can't
		tell you what a fan I am of yours!
		You were magnificent in Deadly 
		Gamble.

				WAYNE
		Oh, thank you.

				ANNA
		Magnificent, magnificent.

				WAYNE
		Well I appreciate that.

				ANNA
		So, what brings you out here?
			(Beat)
		Pleasure cruise?

				WAYNE
		Well a little business too.  In my
		upcoming project Star Trackers I 
		play a ship's captain, and I really
		wanted to get a feel for the outer
		space experience.  I feel it will
		add more credibility to my performance.

				ANNA
		Of course, of course...
			
				WAYNE
		So...

				ANNA
		Well I guess we're neighbors for
		this trip.
				
				WAYNE
		Well, so we are.
			(Beat, gestures
			 towards window)
		Sure is beautiful, huh?

				ANNA
			(looking at Wayne)
		It certainly is.

Wayne looks at Anna and smiles - 

				WAYNE
		Well, it was nice meeting you.
		Enjoy the rest of the trip.

				ANNA
		I'm sure I will.

Wayne heads off - 

				ANNA
		I'm sure we'll see each other
		again.

Wayne turns back and smiles - 

As he turns away we see his smile vanish - 

Just then the two porters exit the room - 

				1ST PORTER
		You're all set ma'am.  I'll
		personally go and check on the 
		status of the old room right
		now.

				ANNA
		You'll do nothing of the kind.

The two porters look at her as she heads toward the door - 

				ANNA
		I'm staying put, thank you very
		much.

Anna then slams the door in the porter's face - the two men look at each other - 
				
INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Camera approaches Barnes as he works on some circuitry in a open PANEL in the wall -

Quickly and methodically, Barnes works with some TOOLS - he then looks up and down
the length of the hallway before quickly taking a small METAL CASE out of his
pocket - 

CLOSE on the case as he opens it - it contains a sophisticated series of CONNECTORS
attached to a dense white CUBE of what appears to be plastic explosive surrounded
by black metal - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor continues running a check of the life pods onscreen -

Just then a command comes up - "FAIL MODE CONFIRMED: 96%"

The command seems to trouble Taylor, who faces the computer and enters some
commands - he pauses for a beat - 

He sits back - once again, "FAIL MODE CONFIRMED:  96%"

Taylor frowns at the command - he presses a button on his wrist watch - 

INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Barnes begins to carefully cross-install the device in the case onto the equipment
in the circuit panel - soon his watch beeps - 

				TAYLOR(V.O.)
		Hey Barnes.

Barnes stops working for a beat, then answers his watch -

				BARNES
		Yeah go.

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor looks at the monitor - 

				TAYLOR
		I'm getting a very strange command
		on the life pod status check. Did
		anything come up on the last
		diagnostic?




INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Barnes seems angry at the news - he shakes his head, bites his lip and quickly
removes the few wires he has attached - 

				BARNES
		No, I just ran it!  Why are you
		running it again?

				TAYLOR(V.O.)
		Well it's a good thing that I 
		did.

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor looks at the screen - 

				TAYLOR
		It's telling me fail mode
		confirmed.  Did you see this?

				BARNES(V.O.)
		There must be some mistake. You
		sure you hit the right commands?

				TAYLOR
		Yes I'm sure I hit the right
		commands.

INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

				BARNES
		Why don't you reset and run it
		again.  The pods check out ok.


				TAYLOR(V.O.)
		You're certain of that?

				BARNES
		Trust me.
			(Beat)
		Even checked 'em with my own 
		eyes.

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

				TAYLOR
		All right, I'll give it a shot.

Taylor presses the button on his watch and resets the commands - 

Just then Dawn Taylor enters the bridge - Taylor turns and faces her - 

The two look at each other for a beat - 

				DAWN
		They said it would be ok to come
		up here.

Taylor gets up and approaches - Dawn extends her hand - 

				DAWN
		I'm Dawn Murphy.

They shake hands - 

				TAYLOR
		Oh right, right you're on that
		research grant.

				DAWN 
		That's right.

				TAYLOR
		Ryan Taylor, first mate.  Welcome
		aboard.  First time in space?

				DAWN
		Yes.  Theoretical discoveries aside,
		there's nothing like the real thing.
		How about you?

				TAYLOR
		This is my second commercial flight.
			(Beat)
		I used to run satellite freighters
		but that got old fast. 

Dawn looks around the bridge - 

				DAWN
		So you were looking for a new
		challenge.

				TAYLOR
		Well, plus the money ain't that
		bad.
				DAWN
		So, tell me, do you think everyone
		gets their million dollars' worth
		on this trip of a lifetime?

Taylor and Dawn look at each other and smile - 

				TAYLOR
		Well, let me put it this way.  Most
		of the cost is due to safety reasons.
		Most people are not familiar with
		space travel, so we have to take
		extra precautions in the event they
		do something careless.

				DAWN
		Like open an airlock by mistake?

				TAYLOR
		Well I don't think there's a 
		chance of that happening.  It's
		usually the moon walks.  Sometimes
		you feel like a kindergarten teacher.

				DAWN
			(laughs)
		Well I hope I don't do anything
		careless.

				TAYLOR
		I'm sure you'll be all right.

				DAWN
		Actually I've logged about 200
		hours of simulated space walking
		at the institute, mostly related
		to starship construction.

				TAYLOR
		Really?

				DAWN
		Still, I hope I behave on the 
		moon.
			(Beat)
		I'll stick close to you.




				TAYLOR
		Well then you'll have nothing to
		worry about at all.  
			(Beat)
		You're dealing with a trained
		professional. I guess.

Dawn and Taylor smile at one another - 

INT LOUNGE - NIGHT

CLOSE on the table where Delbert and Monica were sitting - the table is strewn with
balled-up NAPKINS, PEANUT SHELLS, CRUMBS, TOOTHPICKS, SMEARED MUSTARD, and EMPTY
GLASSES - 

Carlo looks at the table with disgust, and shakes his head - 

Jack approaches Carlo in the now desolate lounge - Carlo moves the glasses and then
folds up the entire tablecloth - 

				CARLO
		Look at this...Jesus.

				JACK
		Yeah, I guess money don't buy
		class.

				CARLO
		No.  But it buys a lot of other
		things.

				JACK
		Like that piece of ass he was
		with.

				CARLO
		Well...I don't mind.  I can put
		up with it.  I'm taking six months
		off after this, and I won't have
		to deal with people snapping their 
		fingers at me.

				JACK
		Not me.  I'm in for the long haul.
		In nine months I'll have enough to 
		take a few years off.  




				CARLO
		Well, more power to you.  Me, I
		start to bug out after too much time
		out here.

				JACK
		I don't have a problem with it.  
		Besides, you get to meet a lot
		of interesting people.

Carlo holds up the tablecloth - 

				CARLO
		Yeah.  A virtual pantheon of
		stars.

Carlo walks off - Jack watches him - 

				JACK
		Hey, it's early yet.

									DISSOLVE TO:
INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Various groups of well dressed individuals sit amongst various tables in the posh
dining room - 

At one table Capt. Reynolds sits with Dawn and some other guests - 

Delbert Miles shoves a forkful of food in his mouth - 

Just then CARLO, a mild - mannered waiter in his 30's, approaches Delbert from
behind - 

				CARLO
		More wine sir?

				DELBERT
		Yeah.  

Carlo begins to carefully pour a glassful - Delbert takes the bottle out of his
hand and proceeds to fill the glass to the brim - 

				DELBERT
		Just leave the bottle.

Carlo watches for a beat - Delbert puts the bottle down and looks at Carlo - 
				DELBERT
		Don't worry I'll take care of 
		you at the end of the night.

Next to Delbert, Monica picks at her food - next to her, a wealthy Arab OIL BARON
peripherally ogles her cleavage - 

				MONICA
		Oh no...I think there's carrots
		in here...

				DELBERT
		Send it back if you don't want
		it.

Delbert looks at Carlo - 

				DELBERT
		She's allergic to carrots.  Is
		there carrots in that?

				CARLO
		Uh, I don't believe so, no, but
		I can - 

				DELBERT
		Yeah go check it out.  I don't
		need her turning purple on me,
		though it would match her
		dress.
			(chuckles)
		
				MONICA
		Go to hell.


Carlo nods, and walks away - 

				DELBERT
			(laughs)
		I'm just kidding baby.

Across the table Warren Wayne smiles as he listens to the conversation, and wipes
the corner of his mouth with his napkin - 

Just then Anna appears from out of nowhere and props up a chair - 
				ANNA
		So...
Wayne looks at her as she looks him directly in the eye, after having had a few
drinks - 

				ANNA
		What was it like doing a love
		scene with Pamela Jarvis?

The others listen to the conversation - 

				WAYNE
		Well, uh, I just don't know what
		to say...
			(Beat, nervous laugh)
		I guess there's worse ways to 
		make a living.

				MONICA
		I did a love scene once for an
		interactive instructional disc.
		The guy had B.O. and I told him
		so.  Next day he wore so much
		cologne I almost threw up.

				WAYNE
		Oh.  Really?

				DELBERT
		Why don't you tell them the good 
		side?

Monica looks at Delbert, then at the others - 

				MONICA
		That's where I met Delbert.  He
		came down to the set, then he
		wanted me on more discs, then he
		put me in the magazine.
			(giggles)
		Then he married me!

				WAYNE
		Well, see?  It wasn't so bad
		after all.

				ANNA
		I bet Pamela had nothing bad to say 
		about you.



				WAYNE
		No, I think hygiene is important.
		It helps you get into the part.

				ANNA
		Very professional of you.

Dawn sits and talks to Captain Reynolds - the conversation is inaudible over the
din - just then Reynolds checks his watch and says "excuse me" to Dawn - he stands
up - 

				REYNOLDS
		Excuse me ladies and gentlemen,
		can I have your attention please?

The people at the table turn and face Reynolds - the din gets quieter - 

				REYNOLDS
		Could I have your attention 
		please?

The voices die down in the room - 

				REYNOLDS
		On behalf of myself and the crew,
		I'd like to welcome you all aboard
		the Star Princess.  I guarantee
		this will be a trip you will 
		never forget.

The others look at Reynolds - Delbert downs another drink - 

				REYNOLDS
		In approximately 36 hours we will
		be landing 300 yards from the very
		spot where the Apollo 12 lunar
		module first set down in 1969.  
		From there you will be able to 
		leave the ship and be an eyewitness
		to history.  The actual flag, the
		actual first footprint, all carefully
		preserved for you to view. It's
		going to be a tremendous experience,
		and I'm glad all of you decided to
		come along for the ride.

Reynolds smiles at the crowd and gestures to Mac - 


				REYNOLDS
		Now many passengers want to know
		the nuts and bolts of how we carry
		out the operation.  So for all you
		technology fans I'm happy to 
		announce we have Mac on board.  
		Mac is our mobile automated concierge, 
		and has been programmed to have an 
		encyclopedic knowledge of every detail 
		of the ship's operations.  He's here 
		to make you happy, so feel free to 
		ask him anything.

Mac smiles at the guests - 
		
				REYNOLDS
		So once again, thanks for coming
		aboard, and enjoy your stay on
		the star princess.

The sound of "here here" and clinking glasses is heard as Reynolds makes his way
out the room - 

Just then Delbert nuzzles up to Monica and paws her - 

				DELBERT
			(slurring)
		I'm horny.

Monica shoves his hands away - 

				MONICA
		Get your hands off of me!
								DISSOLVE TO

EXT STAR PRINCESS

The ship continues it's way toward the moon in the 
distance - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes and Taylor sit at their respective consoles - 

				TAYLOR
		Well, everything's running smoother
		than a baby's ass.

				BARNES
		Ain't it the truth.
The two say nothing for a beat - 

Taylor leans back in his chair, yawns, and stretches - 

				TAYLOR
		So, are you on for the next one?

				BARNES
		I don't know.  Everything's up
		in the air at this point, no pun
		intended.

				TAYLOR
		Why, didn't they say?

				BARNES
		Well that hotel begins construction
		in January, there's going to be a
		lot of shuttle work.

				TAYLOR
		You want to go back to shuttle work? 

				BARNES
		It's steady, good benefits.

Barnes looks at Taylor - 

				BARNES
		You gotta think of your old age.

				TAYLOR
		That's very pragmatic of you,
		Barnes.

				BARNES
		Thank you.

Taylor gets up - 

				TAYLOR
		Man, I'm hungry.  I'm going to
		call the steward, you want anything?.

				BARNES
		Nah, I already ate.
			(Beat)
		Why don't you just go down there?


				TAYLOR
		What, and leave you here all by
		your lonesome?

				BARNES
		Uh...

Barnes gestures to the consoles - 

				BARNES
		I think I can handle it.

				TAYLOR
		Well, maybe I will.
			(Beat)
		You sure you don't want anything?

				BARNES
		No.  I'm all set.  Thanks.

				TAYLOR
		Well, maybe I'll surprise you.

				BARNES
		I can hardly wait.

Barnes watches Taylor as he exits - 

The door closes - just then Barnes turns around and crouches underneath the console
- 

CLOSE on Barnes opening a PANEL and carefully sliding out a sophisticated LAPTOP
COMPUTER - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

The door opens and Taylor walks in - he surveys the room - 

Dawn approaches the bar - Taylor sees her - 

Just then Mac approaches Taylor - 

				MAC
		Officer Taylor, how are you
		this evening?

				TAYLOR
		Mac.  What's shaking?


				MAC
			(Beat)
		I don't understand.

Taylor heads to the bar - 

				MAC
		You are currently stationed
		for bridge duty at this time.

Taylor looks at Mac - 

				TAYLOR
		Yes Mac I know that.  

Taylor walks away - 

				TAYLOR
		Jeez...hall monitor.

Mac watches him leave, then heads over to another passenger offscreen - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes works feverishly on the computer keyboard - 

A SCREEN appears, reading CREW LOCATION - 

There is a list of crew members, starting with the captain - 

A diagram of the ship appears - Barnes highlights the captain - the diagram
indicates the captain is located in his room - 

Barnes smiles - 

				BARNES
		Nighty night, captain.

Barnes then highlights Taylor's name - the diagram indicates he is in the lounge
area - 

				BARNES
		Have one on the house for me.

INT REYNOLDS' ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE on the PIN on Reynolds' jacket, hanging from a 
HANGER - 
Reynolds walks over to a chair dressed in his bathrobe - he lowers himself into the
chair and takes a book off the 
table - 

He then feels his head for a second, then puts the book down and goes over to his
uniform - he feels the pockets, shakes his head - 

He looks around the room, and exits his quarters - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

CLOSE on a pair of READING GLASSES folded and lying on a counter - in the
background Barnes continues to work - 

As we get closer top Barnes we see small beads of sweat on his forehead - 

				BARNES
		Well...I suppose you can't have
		your cake...

A screen then appears before Barnes - it reads:

"BEGIN RECONFIGURATION?"

Barnes pauses for a beat - 

				BARNES
		...without breaking a few eggs.

Barnes then hits "enter" - a 60 second COUNTDOWN  begins on the screen - 

59...58...57...

Barnes sits back - 

Suddenly the bridge door SLIDES OPEN - 

Barnes SPINS his chair around - 

Reynolds enters the bridge in his bathrobe, brandishing his key - 

				REYNOLDS
		Why was this door locked?

Barnes stands up and stares at Reynolds - 

				BARNES
		Isn't it past your bed time, sir?

Reynolds approaches Barnes - 

				REYNOLDS
		What did you say to me?

				BARNES
		It's a little late for you to 
		be up.

				REYNOLDS
		Look answer my question!

Just then Reynolds spots the hybrid computer linked to the main system - 

				REYNOLDS
		What's going on here!

Reynolds storms over to the monitor - 

				REYNOLDS
		What the hell is that?

Barnes approaches from behind - 

				BARNES
		That's mine.  I was just having 
		a little fun.

Reynolds turns and looks incredulously at Barnes - 

				REYNOLDS
		A little fun?  Have you lost it
		Barnes!  You realize how sensitive 
		this equipment is?

Barnes nods, and stares down Reynolds - 

				BARNES
		All too well, captain.

				REYNOLDS
		Well shut it off at once!

Reynolds turns and looks at the computer as it counts down - 


				REYNOLDS
		What's the meaning of this 
		countdown?

CLOSE on a SILENCED GUN appearing in Barnes' hand - 

				BARNES(O.S.)
		I can't tell you that...

CLOSE on Reynolds staring at the computer - Barnes approaches from behind - 

				BARNES
		...it's not on the agenda.

Just as Reynolds begins to turn around - BLAM! a bullet RIPS through his chest -
Reynolds stares at Barnes for a beat, then staggers back and collapses onto a
console - 

BLAM! another blast - soon Reynolds hits the ground falling offscreen - Barnes
approaches him and BLAM! shoots again -

CLOSE on the COMPUTER - 15...14...13...12...

Barnes then aims at Reynolds' head offscreen - BLAM!  Blood SPATTERS against the
wall -

CLOSE on Barnes face as he looks in the direction of the computer - 

CLOSE on the computer: 5...4...3...2...1...

CLOSE on Barnes - 

				BARNES
		Blastoff.

INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Suddenly - 

BOOOMMMM!!  A blinding flash fills the corridor - 

EXT SHIP - NIGHT

An explosion RIPS through the outside of the ship - huge chunks scatter from the
heat of the fireball - 



INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Terrified passengers grab on to handrails for dear life as they are sucked into
space - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

The room shudders violently - people scream as bottles fly across the room, glass
breaks, lights flicker - 

Terrified passengers run toward the exit - 

EXT SHIP - 

Suddenly a CHAIN reaction of explosions send a series of LIFE PODS scattering into
space - 

INT LOUNGE - NIGHT

The drop in pressure sends debris hurling around the room, violently slamming into
passengers - 

INT KITCHEN - NIGHT

An EXPLOSION sends ovens, overhead fixtures and boiling cauldrons CRASHING DOWN,
killing the cooks, all screaming in vain -  

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor fights to get his bearings - he runs to the dining room door but it SHUTS
rapidly -  
INT ENGINE ROOM - NIGHT

Several ENGINEERS scramble to get out as an EXPLOSION rips through the room -

A burst PIPE spews toxic gas into the room - the engineers struggle to breathe,
clawing at the doors -  

EXT SHIP - NIGHT

A few scattered explosions occur around the now severely disabled craft which
drifts erratically through the void - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Moaning and groaning can be heard throughout the darkened, smoky room - 

Taylor looks around, surveying the damage - 

He sees Dawn hunched in the corner, coughing - he rushes over to her - 

				TAYLOR
		Are you all right?

Dawn looks up at Taylor - 

				DAWN
			(shaken)
		I don't know.  I guess so.

Taylor addresses his wrist communicator - 

				TAYLOR
		Bridge?
			(Beat)
		Captain?!
			(Beat)
		Hello Bridge!		

Taylor taps the device - he then rushes over to the INTERCOM on the wall, bangs it
with his fist - 

				TAYLOR
		Bridge!
			(Beat)
		Bridge, do you copy!

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes scans a DIAGRAM of the ship on the screen, noting which sections are still
functioning - 

				TAYLOR(V.O.)
		Bridge!  Can anyone hear me?!

				BARNES
		Yeah yeah yeah, give me a minute
		here.

Barnes looks at the diagram and smiles faintly - 

				BARNES
		A little sloppy.  But it will do.



INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor speaks into the intercom - 

				TAYLOR
		If anyone can hear me please
		respond!

				BARNES(V.O.)
		That's very professional sounding
		of you, Taylor.

Taylor looks around the room - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

CLOSE on a small MONITOR with a wide view of the dining 
room - 

Barnes speaks into a small MICROPHONE on the console - 

				BARNES
		We hope you're enjoying your trip.  
		And we apologize to those currently
		hurtling through space.  Guess them's
		the breaks.

INT DINING ROOM - 

Carlo looks around the smoky room apprehensively, then looks at Taylor - 

Taylor looks at Carlo - 

Dawn looks at Taylor, who speaks into the intercom - 

				TAYLOR
		Barnes, can you hear me, are you
		all right?

				BARNES(V.O.)
		Why yes Ryan, I am, and thanks for
		asking.  You don't have to talk to
		the intercom, I can hear you fine.

				TAYLOR
		What is the condition of the bridge?

	

				BARNES(V.O.)
		The bridge is fine, Taylor, how 
		are things down there?

				TAYLOR
		Transmit the code 3 emergency and
		take us offline.  Override the
		airlock sensors and hurry!  We're
		running out of time, we have to get 
		to the pods!

				BARNES(V.O.)
		Much as I'd like to help you and 
		our valued guests, I'm afraid I
		can't.

				TAYLOR
		What are you talking about!  
		Can you transmit the code 3 - 

				BARNES(V.O.)
		Yes I can transmit the code 3
		emergency!  
			(Beat)
		I just don't think it's a prudent
		move at this juncture.

Dawn approaches Taylor with a worried look on her face - 

				DAWN
		What's he talking about?

Taylor looks at Dawn, then back toward the room - 

				TAYLOR
		Barnes have you flipped your wig?

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes gets closer to the mike to be emphatic - 

				BARNES
		It's a weave, Taylor, and you 
		know that.  We've always been 
		straight with one another.





INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

				BARNES(V.O.)
		Now do you want the good news
		first or the bad news?

				TAYLOR
		You better start making sense!		

				BARNES(V.O.)
		Ok, I will.  The bad news is the 
		ship is history.  Life support will
		last another 36 hours, maybe.

				TAYLOR 
		Then we've got to get to the 
		lifepods!

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

				BARNES
		I'd advise you to shut up and
		let me finish Taylor.  You 
		needn't worry about the lifepods
		because they're all gone, 
		jettisoned. Save for one.

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

The people in the room react to this news - 

				BARNES(V.O.)
		And I think we know who's getting
		it.
				TAYLOR
		Why are you doing this!

				BARNES(V.O.)
		I was getting to that.  Now please
		don't try my patience Ryan.

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

				BARNES
		Now we're all businessmen and a
		common rule of business is to
		make payment for services rendered.
		Given that, I'm willing to provide
		a service to each and every one
		of you.
INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

				BARNES(V.O.)
		I'm willing to transmit that code 3
		emergency. If you're lucky a rescue
		team might just get to you in time.
		Of course by then I'll be long gone.			
		
				CARLO
		In exchange for what!

				BARNES(V.O.)
		Well Carlo, you're not really part
		of the equation...

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

				BARNES
		But those other high rollers around
		you are.  I will provide this
		service in return for the personal 
		authorization codes of each and every 
		bank account.  Once I have those
		codes, and I've completed the 
		transfer, I'll signal the alarm.  But
		not a minute before.

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor listens to this as Delbert approaches - 

				DELBERT
		What the hell is he talking about?

				BARNES(V.O.)
		What part didn't you understand, fat 
		man?  It's a hold up, pure and simple.  
		I want your money.  Cooperate and I'll
		let you live.  And this offer is non-
		negotiable. 

Dawn walks over to Taylor - 
				
				DAWN
		It doesn't make any sense.





				TAYLOR
			(to Barnes)
		It's suicide Barnes!  How do you
		think you're going to get away
		it!

				ANNA
		They'll track him down in a
		heartbeat.

				BARNES(V.O.)
		I understand your concern, but
		those are my problems, not yours.
		But for the record, the transfer 
		trail will take them years to follow.  
		By then it won't matter, because I 
		won't exist, at least not on paper.	

				WARREN
		Why would we give you anything
		without a guarantee of our safety!

				BARNES(V.O.)
		Well, I guess that's just a 
		question of faith, huh?  Of
		course, if money means more
		to you than a chance at survival...
		I'd say you're my kind of
		guy!

				TAYLOR
		It's still not going to work!  
		They'll detect you upon re-entry
		in an emergency vessel!

				BARNES(V.O.)
		Who said I'll re-enter in the pod?
		I got friends out in space, Ryan,
		friends willing to get me back
		unnoticed.  Thank God for deregulation
		huh?

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

				BARNES
		Now I think I've given you all
		the information you need to make 
		a sound decision.  But I'd advise
		you to hurry.

Barnes leans closer to the microphone - 

				BARNES
		I'll give you fifteen minutes
		to organize your information.  I'll
		take any further delay as a sign
		you've rejected the offer, and
		then of course, it's rescinded.

Barnes then reaches over to a button - 

				BARNES
		Over and out.

Barnes then presses the button - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

They guests all look at one another - Taylor concentrates, saying nothing - 

Warren approaches him - 

				WARREN
		This is insane.  This can't be
		happening.

Dawn approaches Taylor - 

				DAWN
		What are we going to do?

				TAYLOR
		I don't know.  

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

CLOSE on the screen showing the dining room - 

				TAYLOR(O.S.)
		I think we should do what he
		tells us.

Barnes leans back and watches them, smiling -

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Dawn approaches Taylor, who inspects the sealed door - 


				DAWN
		How do we know he's not 
		bluffing?

Taylor sees any attempt at opening the door is futile - 

				TAYLOR
		We don't.	

				DAWN
		Well maybe there's a way out
		of here.

				TAYLOR
		Fat chance of that.  Even if we
		had C4 and a laser torch these 
		doors wouldn't budge.
			(Beat)
		That son of a bitch...that stupid
		son of a bitch.			
		
Carlo and Dawn talk with Taylor - 

				DAWN
		Given a malfunction, how would
		a rescue team get you out if
		the doors won't open?

				TAYLOR
		Probably come through the wall
		I suppose.

				DAWN
		Well maybe we can do something
		like that.

Taylor looks at Dawn - 

				TAYLOR
		I don't think you know what you're
		talking about.  Besides, what could 
		we use for tools?  A steak knife?  A
		corkscrew?

				DAWN
		Just considering our options...
		sir.

Dawn and Taylor look at each other - 

				CARLO
		We couldn't try anything anyhow.
		He must be watching everything
		we do.

				TAYLOR
		You're right.

Taylor looks at the CONTROL PANEL next to the door - 

				TAYLOR
		If only I could override this
		thing.

At the other end of the room Mac approaches Delbert who nervously lights a
cigarette - 

				MAC
		On the behalf of the Star Princess
		we apologize for any inconvenience
		you might experience -

				DELBERT
		Get outta here, will ya!!
		
Mac backs off and walks away - Monica approaches Delbert - 

				MONICA
		Well now what are we gonna do!

				DELBERT
		How am I supposed to know?

				MONICA
		You're Delbert Miles!  You have
		more clout than some whacked out
		pilot!  Talk to him!

				DELBERT
		Talk to him...Jesus...

Nearby, Jack places a TABLECLOTH over a dead guest - 

				DELBERT(O.S.)
		I tell you one thing, I'm not
		giving him shit, not a password,
		not an access code, not the time 
		of day.

Jack turns around and looks at Delbert - 
Warren and Anna approach Delbert and Monica - 

				ANNA
		I think we should do what he 
		asks.

Delbert looks at her incredulously - 

				DELBERT
		Oh you do, huh?  Well let me
		tell you something lady, if you
		think that cracker is on the
		level, you're nuts.

				WARREN
		That's a risk we can't afford
		to take.

				DELBERT
		I can.  Use your head, do you 
		think he wants anyone around to
		say what happened?

Jack approaches - 

				WARREN
		There's a chance he'll keep
		his end of the bargain, if we
		only cooperate.

				DELBERT
		Bullshit.

Jack steps up and looks at Delbert - 

				JACK
		Look.  We're talking about life
		and death here.  I don't know
		why we're even having this 
		conversation.

				DELBERT
		Well what would you know about it?
		You don't have anything to lose.

Jack gets closer to Delbert - 				




				JACK
		You're gonna give him those bank
		codes, you know why?  Because I'm
		telling you to, that's why.  I'm
		not losing my life over some greedy
		pig.

				DELBERT
		Who are you calling a pig, rummy?

Just then Jack SHOVES Delbert violently - Delbert CHARGES Jack and they scuffle
briefly before being separated by Warren - 
				WARREN
		Come on!  Stop it!  Stop it!

Delbert and Jack back off from one another, still staring each other down - 

				WARREN
		Let's just stay calm, ok?

				JACK
		I don't believe this crap!

Mac approaches Taylor, Dawn, and Carlo - 

				MAC
		I am receiving a high level
		of negative feedback from our
		guest's comments.  Many expletives
		at a higher than usual decibel
		level.

Taylor looks at Mac, then approaches the others - 

				TAYLOR
		Look, people, listen to me.  As the
		first mate, I know a lot about this
		ship.  Now I don't know what's going
		on outside these doors, I don't know
		where the captain is, I don't know
		who's left out here.  What I do know
		is that if what he's saying is true,
		we're in serious trouble.  So I 
		suggest we collect the information
		he wants, and give it to him.



				DELBERT
		That's still no guarantee of anything!

				TAYLOR
		We don't have a choice!  Now let's
		write them down, OK?

				DAWN
		Supposing we could get out of this
		room?  Is there anything we could
		do to reach the bridge?

				TAYLOR
		It depends on the condition of 
		the ship.  If I could get to 
		one of the suit compartments
		I could check the exterior air
		locks for a possible entry.

				DAWN
		Can't we access the mainframe to
		check the ship's condition?

				TAYLOR
		With what?  How am I going to 
		interface with it?  I need to
		be able to talk to the system
		and to have the system talk to
		me.

Dawn looks at Taylor, who looks down at the ground - 

				CARLO
		We're screwed.  Totally screwed.

Suddenly something dawns on Taylor - 

				TAYLOR
		A way to talk to the system...

Taylor then looks up at Mac -

Dawn watches Taylor - 

Taylor turns to Carlo - 

				TAYLOR
		Carlo, get me the cable off the
		menu register.

Carlo walks off -

				TAYLOR
		We're going to have to be quick.

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes dials up a number in front of a video screen - 

Soon the screen shows a FREIGHTER PILOT'S face -

				PILOT(V.O.)
		Barnes?

				BARNES
		That's me.

				PILOT(V.O.)
		Break it down to me, what's
		going on?

				BARNES
		Seems like they're cooperating.
		Hopefully I'll be out of here
		and on my way very soon.

				PILOT(V.O.)
		Well don't drag your ass.  There
		won't be much of a window for
		us to link up.  We'll be in your
		orbit trajectory in less than two 
		hours.

				BARNES
		Yeah, I know Bill, I came up with
		the plan remember?  Just have those
		hangar doors open and ready, I
		can take it from there.

				PILOT(V.O.)
		Will do.  What about the distress
		signal?

				BARNES
		I don't know.  I really haven't
		made up my mind yet.  We'll see
		how nicely they behave.



				PILOT(V.O.)
		Well that's your call.  Doesn't
		make a damn bit of difference to 
		me.  Just as long as I get my cut.

				BARNES
		Oh you'll get it, believe me.
			(Beat)
		So I'll see you in a few.

				PILOT(V.O.)
		10-4 good buddy.

Barnes reaches over to a button - 

				BARNES
		Yeah yeah, 10-4...

Barnes disconnects the message - 

He then gets up and approaches Reynolds, lying dead on the ground - he stares at
him for a beat - 

He reaches into the bloody robe pocket and pulls out a 
CIGAR - 

He smells the cigar, wets the tip, and lights it - 

				BARNES
		Shame to waste a fine corona.				
 
INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Carlo removes some cables from a computerized MENU MONITOR for the restaurant and
approaches Taylor - 

Taylor takes the cables and approaches the others - 

Anna has finished writing down everyone's authorization codes on a piece of paper - 

				TAYLOR
		Is that all of them?

				ANNA
		Yes.  That's all of them.

Taylor picks up the piece of paper - 


				DELBERT
		I can't believe we're doing
		this.

				TAYLOR
		Well we are, so get used to it.

Taylor then approaches the Wall-mounted CAMERA LENS - 

The others watch him - 

				TAYLOR
		Barnes.  Can you hear me?

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor's face can be seen on the monitor - 

				TAYLOR(V.O.)
		Barnes?

Barnes takes a puff of the cigar, and looks at the monitor - 

				BARNES
		Uh, that's an affirmative, Roger
		Wilco.  Please proceed.

				TAYLOR(V.O.)
		We have the codes here.  How do you
		want to receive them?

				BARNES
		Well, preferably in tens and 
		twenties...

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor stares at the camera as the others watch - 

				BARNES(V.O.)
		That was a joke Taylor, lighten
		up!  Why don't you just hold them up
		to the lens.  I'll write them down,
		and once I'm through verifying them,
		I'll get back to you.

				TAYLOR
		Will you transmit the distress signal?


				BARNES(V.O.)
		Once I'm done verifying them. Can't
		be too trustworthy nowadays.

Taylor slowly holds up the piece of paper to the lens - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

CLOSE on the monitor showing the piece of paper listing the authorization codes of
the passengers nest to their names - the list takes up the entire screen - 

Barnes examines the list and begins entering the first number on the list onto
another screen - 

He then hits enter - the screen reads "CONNECTING WITH NETBANK..." -

Barnes sits back - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor gestures to Carlo to come over - Carlo approaches and Taylor carefully hands
him off the paper to hold up - 

				TAYLOR
		Here.  Take this.

Carlo does so and Taylor walks over to Mac - 

Dawn undoes the front of the WALL PANEL with a knife - 
		
				DAWN
		OK...it's open.

				TAYLOR
		Seen one like it before?

				DAWN
		Sure. It complies with all
		standard construction codes.
		
				TAYLOR
		Great.

Taylor then turns and looks at Mac - 


				TAYLOR
		Mac, I have a favor to ask you.
Mac looks at Taylor - 

				MAC
		Certainly.  If you need anything, 
		please feel free to ask me.  Just a 
		reminder we have fabulous cuisine
		available --

				TAYLOR
		Yes I know all that.  Mac, I need
		you to help us out with a little
		technical problem.

				MAC
		Certainly.  I have a full working
		knowledge of the ships operations.

				TAYLOR
		Right, I understand that...

Taylor looks at Mac's face - Jack approaches - 

Dawn begins to connect one end of the wire to the wall console - 

				TAYLOR
		I need you to actually do something
		for me.  I need to access your CPU,
		directly. 
		
				MAC
		That will not be necessary.  You can
		simply speak to me.  I understand 
		most languages fluently.

				TAYLOR
		Yeah but the ship's mainframe doesn't.
		I need you to tell it something.

				MAC
		Alteration of my central processing
		unit should be done only by an
		authorized service dealer.

				TAYLOR
		I know but we're in a bind.

Mac waits a beat before saying anything - 


				MAC
		Alteration of my central processing
		unit should be done only by an
		authorized service dealer.
			
Dawn then turns and looks at Mac - 

				DAWN
		Yes Mac, but the guests are 
		requesting it.		
			(Beat)
		It will reduce the level of 
		negative feedback.

				MAC
		That is one of my priorities.

Taylor looks at Dawn - 

				TAYLOR
		That is what I thought...

Taylor and Jack look at Mac's face - 

				TAYLOR
		Now which one was it again?

				JACK
		It's the left one, I think.

EXT STAR PRINCESS - NIGHT

The ship drifts aimlessly in space, with the moon in the distance - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes continues to verify the authorization codes - 

CLOSE on the MONITOR - Barnes types in the number - the screen then reads -
"CONNECTING TO NETBANK...", then a pause, then "NETBANK: BEVERLY HILLS CA 90210"
"CLIENT NAME: WAYNE, WARREN."
 
Barnes watches as a series of options appear:  BALANCE, TRANSFER, WITHDRAWAL,
DEPOSIT - 

Barnes selects BALANCE - there is a pause, then: AVAILABLE FUNDS - $40,386,020 - 

Barnes sits back - 

				BARNES
		I tell you, I should have been
		an actor.

Barnes then types in some commands - 

The screen then reads: 

		"TRANSFER TO NETBANK _ _ _ _ _ - _ _ _ " - 

As Barnes types in the number, they appear as X'S - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE on the cable connected to the wall console - 

The camera slowly pans, following the cable - 

				TAYLOR(O.S.)
		Ok, the first thing we need to 
		know is the status of this floor.

Taylor then gently moves the other end of the cable toward Mac's face - as we
approach we see Mac's LEFT EYE removed, with a socket for the corresponding cable -

				TAYLOR
		Here goes nothing.

Taylor slowly inserts the cable into the socket - 

Everyone waits for a beat - 

				TAYLOR
		Now Mac, can you tell me the status
		of this deck?

				MAC
		One moment please...
			(Beat)
		one moment please...

Dawn examines the EYEBALL then looks at Taylor - 

				DAWN
		Do you think it's working?


				TAYLOR
		It should.  Mac?

Mac sits, motionless, with the cable hanging out of his 
eye - 

The others watch apprehensively - 

				MAC
		This corridor is accessible,
		and we hope you enjoy it.  I'm
		sorry to say we are having 
		technical problems with...all
		exits on this level.  We apologize
		for this inconvenience.

Taylor and Dawn sigh with relief - 
		
				TAYLOR
		But the corridor outside this door
		is open, correct?

				MAC
		Yes.  You can enjoy some wonderful
		views from there.

				DELBERT
		Screw the damn views!  Get us out
		of here you piece of crap!

Taylor and the others glare at Delbert for a beat - Taylor then continues to focus
attention on Mac - 

				TAYLOR
		Mac, what about the suit 
		compartments on this level?  Can
		they be accessed?						

				MAC
			(Beat)
		I'm sorry.  The suit compartments
		are in a non-oxygenated, zero
		gravity atmosphere.  I'm afraid
		that's off limits to all passengers.

Taylor sits back - 

				TAYLOR
		Damn it.  If only we could get to 
		those suits...
Dawn then thinks of something - 

				DAWN
		Why can't we?

				TAYLOR
		I don't know the condition of
		the compartments.  Depending
		on damage, debris...could be
		a fatal mistake.

				JACK
		Unless you could hold your breath.

Taylor looks at Jack - 

				TAYLOR
		And suppose you couldn't hold
		out?

				DAWN
		Suppose you didn't have to hold 
		your breath?

Taylor looks at Dawn - 

				DAWN
		We could send Mac.  If he can
		retrieve one suit, we could go
		back for the other.

				TAYLOR
		You're right.

Taylor then looks at Jack - he raises his wrist - 

				TAYLOR
		Jack, let me have your walkie.
		Put it on channel 10.

Taylor than looks around, walks over to a chair, and SMASHES it on the ground,
picking up one of the steel legs - 

Taylor then looks at Mac - 

				TAYLOR
		Open the door, Mac.



INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

CLOSE on the doors to the dining room opening - 

Mac exits the dining room - 
				
Taylor places the chair leg between the two doors creating an opening wide enough
to slide through - 

				TAYLOR
		Ok Mac...
			(shows Mac his walkie)
		I'll talk to you on this. I
		want to find a way to get to
		the bridge, then I want you
		to come back.

				MAC
		Certainly.  Anything I can do
		to be of service.

Mac heads down the hall - 

Dawn and Taylor watch him - 

				DAWN
		He certainly is polite.

				TAYLOR
			(to Mac)
		Close every door behind you!

Mac looks at Taylor, then heads around the corner - 		

INT DAMAGED HALLWAY  - NIGHT

The doors open, and Mac enters the damaged hallway - loose WIRES buzz and crackle,
debris and bodies litter the 
hallway -

				TAYLOR(V.O.)
		How is it looking, Mac?

				MAC
		I would recommend a maintenance
		crew in this sector.

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor talks on his walkie - 
				TAYLOR
		Is it safe for human transport?

				MAC(V.O.)
		That's affirmative.

				DAWN
		It must be oxygenated if we can
		hear him.

				TAYLOR
		Yeah, let's hope he can find a
		way through.

Taylor cues his walkie - 

				TAYLOR
		Mac please check the status of 
		the suit compartment on this level
		I want you to go in there and get
		a suit.

INT DAMAGED HALLWAY - NIGHT

Mac approaches the door at the other end - 

The door does not open automatically - Mac stares at it for a beat - 
				MAC
		I will manually open the door,
		and will report this problem to
		maintenance.

Mac raises his hand to the PANEL on the wall - 

As he does the wrist walkie gets near A LIVE WIRE jutting out of the wall - 

As Mac punched in a number - 

The cable TOUCHES the walkie, and a SURGE of electricity rips through Mac - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor hears a loud CRACKLE emit from his walkie - 

				TAYLOR
		What the hell was that?

INT DAMAGED HALLWAY - NIGHT

Mac gets BLASTED against the wall of the hallway - 

He reels for a beat, then staggers a few steps - 

				MAC
		I have experienced a critical
		error...I have experienced a 
		critical error...I will review
		my previous commands.

Mac enters the commands on the panel, and the door opens - 

INT DINING ROOM - 

Taylor cues his walkie - 

				TAYLOR
		Mac.  Mac!

									DISSOLVE TO	
INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes finishes tallying the total he has transferred - 

CLOSE on the monitor showing the grand total - $368,422,006.32

Barnes sits back, smiles, and takes a puff of his cigar - 

				BARNES
		Not bad for a day's work.

Suddenly there is a bell indicating someone trying to enter the bridge - 

Barnes swings around - 

He checks the monitor and sees it is Mac, waiting outside the bridge door - 

Barnes grabs up his gun and approaches the door - 

He opens the door, all the time aiming his weapon - 

Mac stares at him - 



				BARNES
		Where the hell did you come 
		from?

				MAC
		Hello second mate Barnes. I was
		instructed to come to the bridge.
		
Mac reels for a beat, leans on the hallway wall - 

				MAC
		Is there anything I can do for
		you?

Barnes looks around the hallway, then looks at Mac and smiles - 

				BARNES
		Sure.  Come on in pally.  Take
		a load off.

Mac enters the room - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor listens to his walkie as the others stand around 
him - 
				TURNER
		Mac.  Mac can you hear me?

				DAWN
		I don't understand.  It was working
		fine.

				JACK
		Maybe the walkie shorted out.

				TURNER
		How?
			(Beat)
		Mac, can you hear me?

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes sits down with a smile on his face, and listens to Mac - 

				BARNES
		So how did you get here, Mac?
		I'm impressed.
				MAC
		I had to pass through several 
		restricted areas.  I am sensing
		a high level of passenger 
		dissatisfaction, which
		is my duty to report.

Barnes revels in this encounter - 

				BARNES
		Weren't you down in the dining
		room?

				MAC
		I was there.  Officer Taylor
		accessed my CPU directly to
		open the airlock doors.  They
		are not functioning properly.

				BARNES
		Oh he did, did he?

The smile fades from Barnes' face - 

				MAC
		Yes he did.  Yes he did.
Barnes looks at the monitor - Taylor and the others are still in the dining room - 

				BARNES
		You didn't do anything to the
		monitors, did you Mac?

				MAC
		I did nothing to the monitors.

Barnes watches the screen carefully - 

				BARNES
		And what are they doing now, Mac?

				MAC
		They are awaiting further 
		information.

Barnes looks at Mac - 

				BARNES
		Were you going to give it to them?

				MAC
		I am here to provide service to...
		to all our guests.  There is a high
		level of passenger dissatisfaction.  
		It is my duty...to report this.

				BARNES
		Well you did the right thing Mac.

Barnes gets up - he sees the wrist walkie on Mac -  

				BARNES
		So, you were communicating with
		officer Taylor over the wrist
		walkie?

Barnes inspects the walkie, notices it is on channel 10 - 
he laughs and shakes his head - 

				BARNES
		On channel 10?

				MAC
		The device has stopped responding.

Barnes looks up at Mac - 

				BARNES
		Well, we're going to have to 
		do something about that aren't we?

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor listens to the walkie - 

				TAYLOR
		Mac, can you hear me?  Come in?

				BARNES(V.O.)
		Taylor, you surprise me.

Taylor looks up in disbelief - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes talks into his walkie - Mac sits in the background - 

				BARNES
		Never send an android to do a
		man's work.
INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor and the others listen carefully - 

				TAYLOR
		I don't know what you're
		talking about!

				BARNES(V.O.)
		Sure you do.  Sending Mac out
		on a little recon work.  How
		pathetic.  Problem is it seems
		Mac blew a few fuses.
			(laughs)
		Or maybe he's just a little drunk.
		Were you partying with a robot
		Taylor?

Taylor begins to lose his patience - 

				TAYLOR
		Look we gave you what you asked 
		for.  It checks out didn't it?!
		What more do you want from us!

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

				BARNES
		I told you not to try anything
		smart!  I guess you're too much
		of a maverick to follow a simple
		order!  And that's just too bad for
		all of you now, isn't it?

				TAYLOR(V.O.)
		Look you said it doesn't matter
		to you anyway!  Why do you want 
		to kill more innocent people!  Why!

Barnes gets up - 

				BARNES
		I suppose you want a diatribe about 
		my agenda to get even with the 
		world, or some crap.  

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor and the others listen - 

				BARNES(V.O.)
		Well it's not that complex.  I 
		don't give a damn about the haves,
		and I don't give a damn about the have-
		nots.  And I sure as hell don't give
		a damn about any of you.

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

				BARNES
		It's business.  Period.  If you
		followed directions, you might have 
		had a chance.  But all that's all 
		over now.

Barnes then heads over to the console and adjusts some equipment - 

				BARNES
		I'll tell you what I will do, 
		though.  I'll make sure you all see 
		the moon.  Unfortunately it will have
		to be a one way trip.

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

				BARNES(V.O.)
		So in closing I'd like to thank all
		of you for your generous contributions
		and thanks for flying the Star 
		Princess.  Watch your step on the way 
		out.  Bye bye.

Taylor lowers his walkie - the others respond with sunken faces - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes throws the walkie on the console, smiling to 
himself - he then approaches Mac and puts on a look of mock seriousness - 

				BARNES
		Mac, you really earned your wings
		this flight.

				MAC
		My...wings...


				BARNES
		Yes, your wings.

Mac reels for a beat, then continues - 

				MAC
		I am here to provide service to...
		to all our guests.  There is a high
		level of passenger dissatisfaction.  
		It is my duty...to report this.

				BARNES
		I hear you Mac and I appreciate it.
		Frankly I don't know what I'd have
		done without you on this one.

				MAC
		There is a high level...of passenger 					dissatisfaction.

 				BARNES
		And I intend to correct that at once.
		I'll tell you something Mac...

Barnes puts his arm around Mac - 

				BARNES
		You're really gonna go far in this
		business.

EXT SPACESHIP - NIGHT

An AIRLOCK ENTRANCE can be seen - suddenly Mac SHOOTS out of the entrance and flies
away from the ship - 

Mac disappears into the void, arms and legs akimbo, looking ridiculous - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

CLOSE on the monitor with a view of the exterior as Mac disappears into space - 

Barnes HOWLS with laughter, bending over, slapping the console - 

He gets up, laughing even harder, SHOUTING with laughter - 

He then opens a panel and begins flipping switch after switch after switch - 
INT HALLWAY - NIGHT 

The lights go out in ascending order down the hall - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Suddenly the lights begin to shut off and the send of an ENGINE RUNNING DOWN can be
heard - 

The occupants all look at one another - 

				ANNA
		Oh my God, what is he doing?

				WARREN
		He's shutting off the air!!!

				DELBERT
		That lousy, stinking son of a
		bitch!

Delbert picks up a chair - charges toward the CAMERA - 

				DELBERT
		That lousy -

Delbert flings the chair - SMASSSSHHHHH!!!! The chair shatters the camera - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT 

CLOSE on the camera monitor going blank - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Monica rushes over to Delbert,  whose rage disguises his panic - 
				MONICA
		Delbert!  What's gonna happen?

Delbert pulls his arm away but Monica grabs it again - 

				MONICA
		Delbert!

Delbert looks at her - 

				MONICA
		I'm scared.  I'm really scared!

Delbert looks back at her, unable to hide his fear - 

Jack looks at Taylor - 

				JACK
		What are we going to do?

Taylor concentrates - 

				TAYLOR
		He might still be playing a
		game with us.  But at this
		point the odds are slim, he's
		already killed too many others.

Dawn approaches Taylor - 

				DAWN
		So...what's the next step?

Taylor and Dawn look at each other - 

				CARLO
		What's the use...we're gonna
		die...

				JACK
		Don't say that!  It ain't over
		till it's over!

				TAYLOR
		It's a question of getting to the 
		lifepod.  Before Barnes does. But
		even then, the pod has a maximum
		capacity of seven adults.  
			(Beat)
		And there's eight of us.

				DELBERT
		Well we'll just cram in!

Taylor glares at Delbert -   

				TAYLOR
		It doesn't work that way! There's
		only so much oxygen, only so much 
		fuel, only so much mass it can handle
		on re-entry!


				TAYLOR
		If I could get to the bridge I could
		send the distress signal.  

				DAWN
		Even if we do, it might be too late.

Taylor looks at the room - 

				TAYLOR
		Then I have no other choice.
			(Beat)
		I have to get to the suit
		compartment.

				JACK
		I thought you said it was
		too risky.

				TAYLOR
		I'm not letting him get away with
		this.  It's our last chance.

Taylor heads toward the door - 

				TAYLOR
		Everyone just stay put.

				DAWN
		Wait.

Dawn approaches Taylor - 

				DAWN
		I'll go with you.

Taylor looks at her - 

				TAYLOR
		I can't let you do that.

				DAWN
		Look I know what I'm doing.
		I have experience and training
		in space walking.

				TAYLOR
		Simulated space walking.


				DAWN
		You might need assistance, you
		don't know what your facing.

Dawn looks around the room, then looks at Taylor - 

				DAWN
		I'll go crazy sitting here. I'd 
		rather risk it.

Taylor looks at her for a beat - 

				TAYLOR
		All right come on.

Taylor looks at the others - 

				TAYLOR
		Everyone just stay calm.  Everything's
		going to be all right.

Taylor looks at Jack - 

				TAYLOR
		Jack, keep it together in here.

Jack looks at him -

				JACK
		I'll do my best.


Taylor and Dawn leave through the opening in the door

Carlo watches them - there is a look of real anxiety on his face - 

				CARLO
		We're going to die.

				JACK
		Will you shut up already?

				DELBERT
		I'll tell you one thing, I'm not
		gonna just lie down and die for
		this crackpot.  The hell with
		that!


				MONICA
		And what are you going to do, 
		genius?

Delbert looks at her - 

				DELBERT
		I haven't quite made up my
		mind yet.

				JACK
		I'll tell you what you're gonna
		do.  You're gonna stay put like
		Taylor said.

Delbert approaches Jack - 

				DELBERT
		Again with the orders from you!
		You got a Napoleon complex chief,
		and I'm getting sick of it!

				JACK
		What are you going to do about
		it?

				ANNA
		Will you two please stop it!  I 
		don't want to spend my final hours
		listening to you bitch!

				WARREN
		I'll tell you what I'm going to
		do.

The others look at Warren - 

				WARREN
		I'm going to have myself a drink.

Warren walks over to the bar - 
		
INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dawn and Taylor make their way down the darkened hallway strewn with debris and
collapsed ceiling panels - 

				TAYLOR
		Watch your step.

Taylor approaches a sealed door - he looks at it for a 
beat -

				TAYLOR
		It's through this door.

Taylor then looks at Dawn - 

				TAYLOR
		I don't know what we're facing.  

				DAWN
		I understand.

They look at each other for a beat - 

Taylor takes a deep breath - 

				TAYLOR
		Are you ready?

				DAWN
		Ready as I'll ever be.

Taylor nods at her - he then looks at the door - 

Taylor's hand approaches the emergency lock release - 

				TAYLOR
		Here goes nothing.

Taylor hits the button - 

CLOSE on the doors - they SWOOSH open -

INT SUIT COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

The pressurized room BLASTS  Taylor and Dawn into the small room filled with
several large recessed LOCKERS - there is NO SOUND WHATSOEVER - 

They struggle to anchor themselves as they slam around the room and come
dangerously close to a GAPING HOLE in the wall leading out to space - 

Dawn grabs onto a railing for dear life, her face contorting from the lack of
oxygen and the brutal cold - 

Taylor RIPS OPEN one of the lockers containing a SPACE 
SUIT - the door swings open and shut violently as Taylor struggles to hold on - 

Dawn struggles to get closer to another one of the lockers - 

FROST rapidly begins to form on her hand and the railing - 

Taylor slips and slams backward - but through sheer will power grabs hold of the
locker door, and pulls out the suit's HELMET - he lets go and flies backwards,
holding the helmet - 

He slams into Dawn and hands her the helmet - she, too, let's go to grab it and is
propelled around the room - 

Taylor then opens another locker and repeats the procedure, this time grabbing
another helmet - 

By this time dawn has gone to the first locker and removes the suit, struggling to
get into it while keeping her bearings - 

Taylor puts on the helmet and follows suit, grabbing another suit out of the second
locker - 

Almost at the point of bursting, Dawn begins to lock the helmet down - 

Taylor continues to do the same, getting the arm of the suit stuck in the locker - 

Dawn floats over to the railing - she grabs it and positions herself - 

Taylor finally frees the stuck jacket and continues getting into the suit - 

CLOSE on Dawn as she uses her free hand to press some commands on the other forearm
of the suit - 

A small LIGHT goes on in her helmet - soon she begins to HUNGRILY GASP in the
incoming oxygen - soon a look of relief crosses her face - 

Taylor continues to struggle with the suit - Dawn heads over to him - 

Taylor LOCKS DOWN his helmet - 

Just then Dawn reaches over and presses the buttons the forearms of Taylor's suit - 

The small light goes on in Taylor's helmet - he, too, begins to suck in the air, as
if for dear life - 

Slinking back from exhaustion, Taylor looks over at Dawn - 

Dawn looks back at him - slowly, a smile crosses her face - 

Slowly, Taylor smiles back at her - he presses a button on the forearm of his suit -
we hear his voice through the HELMET SPEAKER - 

				TAYLOR
		Are you all right?

Dawn looks at the suit, and presses the button on her forearm - she then looks at
Taylor - 

				DAWN
		Yeah.
			(Beat)
		We did it.

				TAYLOR
		So we did.

Taylor then heads over to the gaping hole in the wall - 

				TAYLOR
		Now that's what I call an emergency 
		exit.

Taylor inspects it and looks out into space - he then turns and looks at Dawn - 

				TAYLOR
		You're ready for the real thing?

				DAWN
		At this point I'm ready for 
		anything.

Taylor smiles at her - he slowly makes his way out of the hole - Dawn follows,
closely behind - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE on Carlo, who stares despondently at the ground - 
Delbert paces as Monica watches him - 

				DELBERT
		I tell you, something's not right
		here.
			(Beat)
		How do we know they're not going
		to use the pod for themselves?

				JACK
		Because, Taylor wouldn't do that,
		that's why.

				DELBERT
		What makes you so sure?

Jack looks at Delbert with contempt -

				JACK
		I'm not asking now, I'm begging.
		Please shut up!

INT WINE ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE on Warren corking a vintage wine - 

Just then Anna enters, closing the door behind her - 

Warren shows Anna the bottle - 

				WARREN
		2059...a very good year.

Warren then takes an ENORMOUS swig of the wine, then wipes his mouth - 

				WARREN
		You want some?  It's got a 
		hearty bouquet.

Anna approaches, and takes the bottle -

				ANNA
		Getting drunk is no solution.

				WARREN
		Yeah, well...I forgot my
		morphine back in the room.

Anna looks at him - 
				WARREN
		Go on, have some.  In fact...

Warren peruses the other bottles on the wall - 

				WARREN
		Have the whole thing.  There's
		plenty more where that came from.

Warren selects another bottle - 

Anna takes a sip of the wine - 

				ANNA
		So I guess this is it.

Warren opens another bottle - 

				WARREN
		This is it.  Finished.  Kaput.
		Over.

Warren corks the bottle - 

				WARREN
		And Warren Wayne's going out in
		style.

Warren takes a swig of the wine - 

				WARREN
		A little sweet.
										CUT TO
EXT STAR PRINCESS

Slowly Taylor and Dawn rise into the frame, and hover over an area of the ship,
grabbing onto handles placed around the area - 
				TAYLOR
		Be careful, you don't want to 
		puncture the suit.
		
				DAWN
		Don't worry about me.
			(Beat)
		Where are we going?




				TAYLOR
		To the other side.  There's
		an airlock close to engineering.
		If it's intact, I can get to 
		the pressure vents.

Suddenly Taylor sees something - 

				TAYLOR
		What the hell is that?

Taylor approaches a section of the ship and scrutinizes it - 

Dawn looks in that direction -

POV Taylor grabs a chunk OF C4 PLASTIC EXPLOSIVE attached to a pipe on the ship - 

				DAWN
		Explosive?

				TAYLOR
		One of Barnes' duds, luckily
		for us.  Take this out of the
		equation right now...

Taylor puts the C4 into a STORAGE POUCH on his suit - 

				TAYLOR
		That psychotic bastard...

Taylor looks back a Dawn - 

				TAYLOR 
		Come on, let's go.

Dawn follows him - they look at each other - 

				DAWN
		Taylor?

				TAYLOR
		Yeah?

				DAWN
			(Beat)
		What do you think's going to 
		happen to us?

Taylor looks back at Dawn - 
				TAYLOR
		Well, Dawn, I'm an optimist by
		nature.

				DAWN
		Yeah, but you didn't answer my
		question.

The two continue to make their way across the ship - 

				TAYLOR
		Do you want some advice?

				DAWN
		Sure.

				TAYLOR
		Don't worry about what will happen,
		just concentrate on what is
		happening.  You'll live longer.

				DAWN
		Words to live by.	 
		
INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes closes up his laptop - 

He walks across the bridge - soon he notices something - 

CLOSE on the EMERGENCY DISTRESS SIGNAL panel, with three levels of emergency -
moderate code 1, extensive code 2, critical code 3 - 

Barnes looks at it for a beat, smiles, then reaches for his gun - 

He then BLASTS the panel which crackles and emits some black smoke - 

Barnes laughs - 

He then goes over to the monitor - 

He presses a button and looks at the monitor - the screen is blank -

Barnes smile fades - 


				BARNES
		Those idiots...

Barnes then presses another button - 

POV the monitor shows a WIDE VIEW of the hallway outside the dining room - 

Barnes scrutinizes the image -  he sees something he doesn't
like - he hits a button - 

POV the monitor ZOOMS IN to reveal the doors to the dining room open about 18
inches - 

Barnes frowns at this discovery - 

EXT STAR PRINCESS 

Taylor and Dawn continue to crawl across the side of the ship - 

Just then Taylor sees something - 

He gestures to Dawn - 

				TAYLOR
		Good news.  
			(pointing)
		Look.

Dawn looks in the direction Taylor is pointing - 

POV coming into view on the other side of the ship is an AIRLOCK - 

				TAYLOR(O.S.)
		It's intact.  We're one step
		closer.  Come on.

Taylor and Dawn make it closer to the airlock - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes is checking all the various security camera shots on the monitor, looking
for any movement - 

On another monitor, the freighter pilot talks to the 
screen - 


				PILOT(V.O.)
		It's time we lock coordinates.
		
				BARNES
		I know, I know.

Barnes keeps checking the security monitor - he is now exploring the exterior of
the ship - 

				PILOT(V.O.)
		So, what are we waiting for?

				BARNES
		Cool your jets...I'm doing a little
		damage control.

				PILOT(V.O.)
		Damage control!  What kind of damage?
		What's going on Barnes!

Just then Barnes sees something on the monitor - his eyes widen - 

POV Taylor and Dawn approaching the airlock - 

Barnes SLAMS the console with his fist!

				BARNES
		Damn it!

EXT STAR PRINCESS

Taylor and Dawn are now in front of the airlock - 

Taylor begins to reach for the opening lever - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes speaks to the pilot - 

				BARNES
		Don't do anything until further
		notice!

Barnes then rushes over to a console - 

EXT STAR PRINCESS

The airlock door opens and Taylor makes his way in - 

Dawn is about to follow suit when - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes THROTTLES UP THE ENGINE - the ship begins to ROAR -

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Delbert, Monica, and Jack listen - 

				DELBERT
		What the hell is that?

				JACK
		The engines! 

EXT STAR PRINCESS

The ship's booster kick in full force - 

The ship lurches - suddenly Dawn LOSES HER GRIP and struggles to grab onto anything
- 

Taylor looks back, sees this - 

				TAYLOR
		Dawn!  Dawn!

				DAWN
		Helllp!

Taylor rushes out of the airlock and begins to climb frantically up the side of the
ship to save Dawn - 

Dawn begins to drift away, higher and higher - 

Taylor continues to frantically climb - 

Dawn struggles to grab the ship but can't reach it - 

Taylor approaches the top of the ship - 

Dawn continues to rise, rapidly approaching the point of no return - 
Taylor gets to the top, reaches out to save her -

Dawn's boot gets closer to Taylor's hand - Taylor reaches as far as he can - 

CLOSE on Dawn's boot, too far for Taylor to reach - she slips away - 

Just then Taylor LEAPS toward Dawn - 

He barely manages to grab her ankle - 

The two of them drift for a beat until - 

Taylor's boot HOOKS under an antenna at the very end of the ship - 

The two hang there in space - 

				TAYLOR
		You're safe.  Grab my hand - 

CLOSE on Dawn's glove clutching Taylor's -

INT WINE ROOM - NIGHT

Several empty bottles are strewn around the room - 

Anna and Warren appear to be getting very drunk - 

				ANNA
		I think we're moving.

				WARREN
		Well isn't that great.  Something
		to write home about.

Warren takes a bottle and HURLS IT across the room - it smashes against the wall - 

Warren then lets out a drunken laugh - 

Anna watches him, then follows suit, cackling - 

				ANNA
		I never though I'd be stuck in
		a wine closet with Warren Wayne.

				WARREN
		Well get used to it, 'cause here
		we are, on the cruise of a lifetime.

Warren approaches her, walking like a robot - 


				WARREN
		Tell me, miss Koros, how are you 
		enjoying the trip so far?

Anna cracks up at Warren's crude imitation of Mac - 

				WARREN
		Can I get you anything?  Some
		more cheese puffs perhaps...

The two of them laugh drunkenly - 

				WARREN
		I'm perfectly serious.  I'm here
		to satisfy your every request here
		on the cruise of a lifetime.  Just
		ask, anything you want, anything
		at all.
		 
Anna's laughter subsides, and she looks at Warren seductively - 

Warren sees this, and his laughter subsides - 

Anna then looks at him with lust - 

				ANNA
		I want you.  Now.

Anna then lunges toward Warren and gives him the DEEPEST POSSIBLE TONGUE KISS known
to man - Warren does not resist - 

They crash around the room in an explosion of passion -

INT HALLWAY BY ENGINEERING - NIGHT

Taylor and Dawn make their way down the hall - 

				DAWN
		I guess I owe you a debt of
		gratitude.  You saved my life.

				TAYLOR
		It was no time to lose my partner.
		We're going to have to hurry, he's 
		on to us.

INT ENGINEERING - NIGHT

The door opens and Taylor and Dawn enter the room - 

They look down - 

Dawn gasps, looking at the contorted faces of the dead engineers - 

				DAWN
		Oh my God.  What happened?

				TAYLOR 
		The room is filled with poison
		gas.  The hydraulic system must
		have blown.

Taylor looks at the men for a beat - he then heads over to a console - 
				TAYLOR
		That sick bastard...

Taylor hits an AUXILIARY POWER switch on the console - the screen on the monitor
lights up - 

				DAWN
		What's that?

				TAYLOR
		A schematic of the ship.  Looking
		for a lifeline to the pods.

				DAWN
		We don't have enough suits to
		get the others out.

				TAYLOR
		That's why we need a safe passage.
		remember what you said earlier,
		about getting through the wall?
		That might just be our ticket.

Taylor brings up the floor plans of the ship - functioning areas are in green, the
others in red - 









				TAYLOR
		No look, see that.  One deck up
		will take you across the damaged
		lower decks.  There's a bulkhead 
		here, then over that, one deck down,
		is a storage room.  That room
		is adjacent to the dining room.
		We get through that wall, we get
		them out to here - 

Taylor points to the LIFEPOD AREA on the map - 

				DAWN
		How are we going to blow the 
		wall?

Taylor looks at Dawn for a beat - 

He then climbs up some steps nearby to a small storage area, and begins to rip open
drawers - 

Dawn watches him - 

Taylor then grabs up a FLARE from one of the drawers - 

He heads down to Dawn and hands it to her - 

				TAYLOR
		Take this flare.

				DAWN
		A flare?  A flare won't do
		it.

				TAYLOR
		No...

Taylor takes the C4 out of the pouch on his suit - 

				TAYLOR
		But this will. Just attach it
		to the flare.

Taylor hands the C4 to Dawn - 

				TAYLOR
		The flare is self igniting, it
		has a short fuse, so be careful.
		And remember...

Taylor breaks off a tiny piece of the C4 - 

				TAYLOR
		A little dab'll do ya. Now you
		know how to get there, right?

				DAWN
		Why?  Where are you going?

Taylor looks at her for a beat - 

				TAYLOR
		I'm not going with you.

				DAWN
		What?  What are you talking 
		about?
		
				TAYLOR
		There's only room on that pod
		for seven.  That's you and the 
		others.  I'm counting on you
		to get them out of there.

Dawn stares at him, dumbstruck - 

				DAWN
		And what are you going to do?!

				TAYLOR
		I'm going to try and buy you
		some time.  I can get to the 
		bridge from here.

				DAWN
		But how are you going to escape?

				TAYLOR
		Don't worry about me.  There's
		still a chance I can issue a 
		distress signal.

				DAWN
		But you can't be sure!  It's
		suicide.  You have to come with
		us!

				TAYLOR
		I can't!

Taylor takes Dawn by the shoulders - 

				TAYLOR
		Listen, Dawn.  You have to 
		stay focused.  Don't unravel
		on me.  Now you've got to get
		them to safety!  I'm counting
		on you.

Dawn looks at Taylor - 

				TAYLOR
		Don't worry about me.
			(Beat)
		I'll be all right.

They look at each other - 

				TAYLOR
		Now hurry up.  We're running
		out of time.

Dawn heads over to the door - 

Taylor approaches a PANEL on the wall - 

Dawn pauses at the door - 

Taylor and Dawn look at each other for one last beat - 

Dawn gestures to the COMMUNICATOR in her helmet - 

				DAWN
		Keep in touch.

Taylor gestures to his communicator - 

				TAYLOR
		I will once I get past the
		bulkhead.
			(Beat)
		Good luck.

				DAWN
		You too.

Dawn exits the room and the door closes behind her - 

Taylor looks at the door for a beat, then proceeds top open the panel, which leads
to an AIR SHAFT - 

He climbs into the shaft - 

EXT STAR PRINCESS 

The ship heads full speed towards the moon - 

INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dawn runs down the hallway - she comes to a stop, looks left and right, then heads
left -  

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

CLOSE on the monitor showing the face of the ship's pilot - 

				PILOT(V.O.)
		You're not helping my heart 
		condition any, Barnes!  Now just 
		what the hell are you dragging your
		ass for?

				BARNES
		The others decided to get cute with
		me, so I'm teaching them a lesson!

Barnes looks out the window - 

				BARNES
		This ship is going down in a 
		blaze of glory!

				PILOT(O.S.)
		Well blaze your ass out of there!
		You've completely altered your 
		trajectory, are we linking up or
		not?!

				BARNES
		Don't worry about me, I'm changing
		coordinates now.
			(Beat)
		I've come to far to be tripped up
		by some Dudley do-right...
		motherfuckers!

INT AIR VENT - NIGHT

Taylor makes his way through the air vent, slowly and carefully - 
INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Delbert, Monica, Jack, and Carlo sit in the room - 

Carlo struggles to take a breath - 

				CARLO
		It's getting hard to breathe...

				JACK
		Just don't move around too much.

Carlo looks at him, and heads to the MEN'S ROOM -

Jack watches him and shakes his head - 

				JACK
		Thanks for taking my advice.

Monica stands up, looking agitated - 

				MONICA
		It's getting too cold in here.
			(Beat)
		I can't stand this anymore!

				DELBERT
		Baby, take it easy.

				MONICA
		How can you sit there with your
		fat stomach and tell me to take
		it easy!  I want to go home!  I 
		want to be warm!  I want to get
		out of here!

Delbert approaches her - 

				DELBERT
		Look, calm down, getting all 
		crazy is going to make things 
		worse.

Delbert hugs her and Monica cries - together they sit down at a table while she
weeps inconsolably - 

Delbert hugs her - 

				DELBERT
		It's ok...
Just then Jack emerges from behind them and drapes a TABLECLOTH over both their
shoulders - 

Delbert looks up at Jack, who looks at him - 

				DELBERT
			(Beat)
		Thanks.

Jack nods his head - 

				JACK
		Keep her warm.

INT WINE ROOM - NIGHT

Warren and Anna are now naked as they ATTACK each other passionately - 

				ANNA
		Oh Warren...oh Warren...take me,
		God take me...

				WARREN
		Oh yeah...

				ANNA
		Oh yeah...

				WARREN
		Oh Sara...

				ANNA
		Anna...

				WARREN
		Anna...

EXT STORAGE HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dawn approaches a door marked STORAGE - she hits a panel next to the door and the
door opens - 

She enters the room - 
					
She approaches the far wall - she feels it with her hand - 




				DAWN
		This must be it.
			(Beat)
		Taylor come in.  Can you hear 
		me?				

There is no response - 

				DAWN
		Damn.

Dawn then takes the C4 and the flare out of the pouch on her suit - 

INT AIR SHAFT - NIGHT

Taylor continues to navigate his way through the air 
shaft - 

He looks ahead - 

POV in the distance some LIGHT can be seen through a grate - 

Taylor presses some buttons on the forearm of his suit - a click can be heard -
Taylor then slides up the protective face plate on the helmet, and continues to
crawl - 

Suddenly Taylor perks up - he hears something up ahead - 

				BARNES(O.S.)
			(far away, muffled)
		I know that!

Taylor likes what he hears - he begins to crawl faster toward the light - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes is talking to the pilot on the monitor -


				PILOT(V.O.)
		Well if you knew it then why did
		set your thrusters on before making
		the calculation?

				BARNES
		I told you, I had to teach a few
		people a lesson!

				PILOT(V.O.)
		Goddamn it Barnes this really
		steams my onions!

				BARNES
		Let's get something straight, 
		Chappy!

INT AIR SHAFT - NIGHT

Taylor gingerly approaches the grate and looks down - 

POV the far end of the bridge is visible - 

				BARNES(O.S.)
		I don't take orders from you,
		you take orders from me! You got
		that?

Struggling not to make a sound, Taylor bites his lip and VERY SLOWLY opens the vent
- 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Barnes addresses the monitor - 

				BARNES
		Now I got enough air and supplies
		to make another complete orbit in
		the pod!  You're just gonna have to
		pick me up later.

				PILOT(V.O.)
		This is a major screw up on your
		part, goddamn it!


				BARNES
		Well then why don't I tell you
		something, good buddy?  I don't
		need to listen to shit from you!
		Now you want to call it off fine,
		I'll take the risk of re-entry
		but you're out of the picture,
		understand?

The pilot says nothing - 

	

				BARNES
		Now we'll regroup in 24 hours, tell
		whoever you need to you're extending
		the trip, and pick me up accordingly.
		Is that clear?

The pilot says nothing - 

				BARNES
		Is that clear?

				PILOT(V.O.)
		That's clear.

				BARNES
		Good.  Now you'll hear from me
		when I have the new coordinates.
		In the meantime don't bug me.

				PILOT(V.O.)
		Sheesh!  Aye aye cap'n!

				BARNES
		Over and out!

Barnes disconnects the transmission - 

				BARNES
		Idiot...

				TAYLOR(O.S.)
		Good help is hard to find...

Barnes SPINS around - 

He is face to face with Taylor, who SMASHES Barnes across the face with his own
laptop - 

Barnes spins around and collapses to the floor, blood running out of his mouth - 

Taylor gives him a ferocious KICK to the head for good measure - 

He then looks over and sees Reynolds, dead - 

				TAYLOR
		Oh Jesus...


INT STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT

Dawn carefully places the C4 and the flare against the 
wall - 

Just then her communicator crackles to life - 

				TAYLOR(V.O.)
		Dawn.  Come in.

				DAWN
		Taylor!  Where are you?

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor surveys the damage on the bridge - 

				TAYLOR
		I'm in the bridge.

				DAWN(V.O.)
		Barnes?

Taylor looks down at an unconscious Barnes - 

				TAYLOR
		He's out of the equation.  
			(Beat)
		Talk to me.

INT STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT

				DAWN
		I'm about to blow the wall.

				TAYLOR(V.O.)
		Hurry.  You have to get them 
		out of there!

				DAWN
		How does the distress signal
		look?

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor looks at the completely destroyed distress signal panel - 



				TAYLOR
		Uh, it's ok, everything's going 
		to be ok...now I'm counting on
		you, and whatever you do keep
		calm, we don't want them to panic.

				DAWN(V.O.)
		I'll do my best.

INT STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT

				DAWN
		So what's going to happen to you?

				TAYLOR(V.O.)
		I'm staying with the ship.  I'll
		be all right.  Now hurry.

				DAWN
			(Beat)
		Thanks for everything, Taylor.
		Will I see you again?

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

				TAYLOR
		Hopefully sooner than later.

				DAWN(V.O.)
		Sooner than later.

				TAYLOR
		Over and out.

Taylor shuts off the communicator - he reflects on the conversation for a beat,
then approaches the destroyed distress signal panel - 

				TAYLOR
		That son of a bitch...

INT STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT

Dawn looks at the C4 and the fuse - 

				DAWN
		Here goes...nothing...

Dawn rips the fuse open on the flare - 

It begins to spark - 

Dawn then looks around - 

She spots some BARRELS in the corner - 

She rushes over to them and ducks for cover - 

She watches the fuse as it burns down...

LOWER...

LOWER...

Dawn closes her eyes....then suddenly - 

BOOM!!!  A HUGE EXPLOSION tears a gigantic hole on the wall - debris scatters
everywhere - 

Dawn shields herself - the sound of SMASHING BOTTLES can be heard - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Jack spins around - 

				JACK
		What the hell was that??

Jack RACES over to the wine room door - Delbert and Monica follow him - 

INT WINE ROOM - NIGHT

Jack rips open the door - he is stunned by what he sees as the smoke clears - 

There is an enormous HOLE in the wall - 

He looks to the other side of the room, around a counter - his jaw drops - 

Anna and Warren roll out from behind it, STARK NAKED - 

				JACK
		What the hell!

Just then Dawn emerges from the hole - 

She too sees Anna and Warren, who fumble for their clothes - 
				DAWN
		What the hell!

Jack sees Dawn - 

				JACK
		What is happening around here!!!

				DAWN
		There's no time to explain.  Get 
		everyone together!  We found a way
		to the pods!

				JACK
		Where's Taylor?

				DAWN
		He's up on the bridge!  He's going
		to be OK.  Now who's missing?

Jack looks around - Anna and Warren hastily finish getting dressed - 

				JACK
		Just Carlo.

Jack faces the dining room - 

				JACK
		Carlo?

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

The group files out of the wine room - 

				DAWN
		Carlo!

				JACK
		He's in the bathroom.

Jack heads toward the bathroom - 

				JACK
		Carlo!

The others follow - 



INT MEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jack pushes the door open - his eyes widen - 

				JACK
		Oh no!

Monica approaches, looks ahead, and screams - 

POV Carlo SWINGS from a makeshift noose of cloth towels - 

The others enter as Jack rushes over to him - 

				DELBERT
		Oh Jesus Christ...

Jack lifts Carlo up by the legs and removes him from the noose, gently lowering him
to the floor - 

				DAWN
		Is he dead?

Jack checks for a pulse then grimly looks at Dawn and nods - 

Dawn turns away and heads back into the dining room - 

INT DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Dawn stares at the ground for a beat - she then looks back at the bathroom, then
turns away - 

				DAWN
		God damn it...

Something then dawns on her - she looks forward, then turns toward the direction of
the others - 

INT BATHROOM - NIGHT

Dawn approaches the others - 

				DAWN
		Look, we're running out of time.
		We have to jettison as soon as 
		possible or we'll be out of 
		the gravitational pull.  Come on...

The others look at her for a beat, then file out - 

Jack remains, looking down at Carlo, then back up at Dawn - 
				DAWN
		There was nothing you could have
		done.  
			(Beat)
		The thing to do now is save yourself.

Carlo looks at Dawn, then back at Carlo - 

				JACK
		I'm right behind you...

Dawn backs out of the room - 

				DAWN
		Hurry.

Dawn exits - 

Jack shakes his head and stands up, looking down on Carlo - 

				JACK
		You stupid kid, you were so close...
			(Beat)
		You stupid kid...

Jack slowly backs out of the room, then turns and walks 
out - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor struggles to fix the wiring around the distress signal panel - he's becoming
increasingly frustrated - 

				TAYLOR
		Goddamn it...

Just then, behind him, Barnes slowly begins to come to - he struggles to get his
bearings - 

He spots the gun close by - 

Taylor continues to work on the console - 

Barnes gets hold of the gun - he raises it up and aims at Taylor - 

BARNES' POV through double vision, he sees Taylor 
working - 

Barnes holds the gun out and BLAMMMM!!
He fires, missing Taylor - Taylor spins around and POUNCES on Barnes - 

INT DAMAGED HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dawn leads the others through the debris-strewn hallway toward the direction of the
lifepod  - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor and Barnes crash around the room as Taylor struggles to wrestle the gun from
Barnes' hand - 

They scuffle toward the bridge door - 

Taylor SLAMS Barnes against a panel, and the bridge door opens, out to the hallway -

INT HALLWAY TO LIFEPOD - NIGHT

Dawn, Jack, Delbert, Monica, Warren and Anna rush down the hallway - 

Dawn looks back at the others - 

				DAWN
		Hurry!

INT LIFEPOD ENTRANCE  - NIGHT

Dawn and the others approach the pod door - 

Dawn presses some buttons on a WALL CONSOLE next to the 
pod - 

The pod door opens - Dawn looks back at the others - 

				DAWN
		Everybody in!  Come on!

INT LIFEPOD - NIGHT

Monica, Anna, Delbert, Jack, and Warren all enter the life pod - 

They begin hastily fastening themselves in - 




INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor SMASHES Barnes' wrist across the doorjamb - the gun flies out of his hand - 

INT HALLWAY BY BRIDGE - NIGHT

The gun rattles across the floor - 

Barnes leaps toward it and turns around training it on Taylor - 

Taylor DIVES as Barnes fires - BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM!!!

He hits a pipe which BURSTS FORTH a dense jet of smoke which quickly fills the area,
blocking Barnes' vision - 

Taylor watches this, and in the split second that follows - 

He grabs up a piece of broken ceiling panel on the ground and THROWS it toward the
direction of an observation 
window - 

Barnes sees the motion, FIRES - 

BLAM!!! The bullet SHATTERS the window as everything gets sucked towards it - 

Taylor FLIES ACROSS THE FLOOR stopping himself by grabbing onto a pipe at the last
second - 

Barnes SMASHES against the window struggling to anchor himself - it is too late - 

Taylor watches as Barnes is SUCKED out the window along with various debris - his
fading scream fills the hallway as Taylor seals his mask shut - 

EXT STAR PRINCESS - Barnes shoots out the window and struggles in vain to breathe
as he disappears into the icy black void - 

INT LIFEPOD - NIGHT

Jack looks at Dawn, who has yet to get in - 

				JACK
		What are you waiting for?!  Come on!

Dawn looks down the hall, then back at Jack - 
				DAWN
		I'm going back for Taylor!

				JACK
		Are you nuts!  It's too risky!

				DELBERT
		He told you what to do!

				DAWN
		He didn't know there was room!
		Initiate the blastoff!  We'll
		be back in five minutes!

Jack stares at her for a beat - 

				DAWN
		Five minutes!

Dawn runs down the hallway - 

Jack sets the timer for 5 minutes and hits ENGAGE - 

INT DIFFERENT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dawn runs down the hallway, avoiding fallen debris - 


INT LIFEPOD - NIGHT

Close on the others as they watch the countdown - 

4:30...4:29...4:28...

EXT STAR PRINCESS - NIGHT

Dawn climbs across the hull of the ship - 

INT LIFEPOD - NIGHT

The countdown continues - 

3:45...3:44...3:43...

Delbert looks at it - 

				DELBERT
		They're not gonna make it!


				JACK
		It's not time yet!

Everyone anxiously watches the countdown - 

INT HALLWAY NEAR BRIDGE - NIGHT

An AIRLOCK opens and Dawn emerges - she rushes toward the bridge door - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor struggles to repair the controls - Just then the bridge door opens - 

Taylor spins around - Dawn enters the room - 

				TAYLOR
		What the hell are you doing?

				DAWN
		We have room!  Let's go!

				TAYLOR
		What do you mean?  What happened!

				DAWN
		We don't have time.  I'll explain
		later, hurry!

Taylor looks at her for a beat, then grabs his helmet - 

INT LIFEPOD - NIGHT

The countdown continues - 

Warren looks at the countdown - 

3:26...3:25...3:24...

				WARREN
		Goddammit where are they?

				JACK
		Give them time!

EXT STAR PRINCESS - NIGHT

Taylor and Dawn make their way across the ship - 

INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Taylor and Dawn emerge from a gaping hole in the hallway and rush down the hall - 

INT POD - NIGHT

The countdown continues - 

1:46...1:45...1:44...

The others watch - 

INT DAMAGED HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dawn and Taylor rush down the hall - 

INT LIFEPOD - NIGHT

The countdown continues - 

				WARREN
		Jesus, come on!

				ANNA
		They're not going to make it!

				MONICA
		They're not going to make it.

Jack then looks at the countdown 

31...30...29...

Jack's face sinks - 

				JACK
		They're not going to make it.

INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Taylor and Dawn rush down the hall - 

INT LIFEPOD - NIGHT

The countdown continues - 

6...5...4...

CLOSE on the individual faces of the passengers - Jack, Warren, Anna, Delbert,
Monica - 

INT LIFEPOD HALLWAY - NIGHT

Taylor and Dawn enter just as - 

A LOUD BUZZING NOISE pierces the air and a red light fills the hallway - 

INT LIFEPOD - NIGHT

CLOSE on the counter...1...0

EXT STAR PRINCESS LIFE POD

A series of SMALL EXPLOSIONS blast the life pod away from the craft - 

INT LIFEPOD - NIGHT

The passengers hold on for dear life as the pod SHUDDERS VIOLENTLY - 

EXT SPACE 

The pod HURTLES through space, headed toward Earth in the distance - 

INT LIFEPOD HALLWAY - NIGHT

Taylor and Dawn stand there, dejected -  

				DAWN
		No...

INT LIFEPOD - NIGHT

Jack looks out of a small window - 

				JACK
		God help them.

POV of the window, with the Star Princess disappearing into the distance - 

INT LIFEPOD HALLWAY - NIGHT

Taylor and Dawn watch the pod disappear through a window - 

				DAWN
		So close...

				TAYLOR
		And so far.

Taylor looks at Dawn - 

				TAYLOR
		There's only one thing left 
		to do.
 
EXT STAR PRINCESS - NIGHT

The ship begins to approach the moon at a rapid speed - 
 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor and dawn enter the bridge - 

				TAYLOR
		Strap yourself in!  Hurry!

EXT STAR PRINCESS - NIGHT

The ship gets closer and closer to the moon - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT 

Dawn and Taylor hastily secure themselves to their respective chairs - 

EXT MOON SURFACE 

The ship spins as it approaches the surface of the moon - 

INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor and Dawn tightly clench the consoles, bracing for the worst - 

The surface gets closer...CLOSER...

Dawn shuts her eyes - 

EXT MOON 

CRASSHHHHH!!! The ship COLLIDES with the surface, leaving a long streak as it
slides across the ground - 
INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor and Dawn hold on for dear life as the ship violently scrapes across the
surface - 

EXT MOON 

Soon the ship grinds to a halt on the surface, a burned, battered shell of its
former self - The charred remnants of the "Star Princess" logo can be seen - once
again, it is silent - 
									FADE OUT

									FADE IN
INT BRIDGE - NIGHT

Taylor comes to - 

He looks around the bridge, gets his bearings - 

He unfastens himself and gets up - he feels his head, looks around -

He then approaches Dawn, who is also unconscious - 

He looks at her for a beat - 

POV she looks beautiful in the light - 

Taylor crouches down and gently shakes her - 

				TAYLOR
		Dawn...

Slowly, she comes to - 


Dawn slowly opens her eyes and looks around - the only thing audible is the humming
of a bridge engine - 

Taylor and Dawn look at each other - 

				TAYLOR
		Are you all right?

Dawn gets her bearings, then looks at Taylor - 

				DAWN
		As if it matters.

Dawn unfastens herself -  

Taylor gets up - he heads over to a window - 

Dawn approaches him - he looks out - 

				TAYLOR
		Well...we made it.  There it is.

Dawn looks out the window - 

				DAWN
		Just the way I thought it would
		look.

A forlorn expression crosses her face - Taylor looks grimly out the window - 

Just then Dawn begins to cry - Taylor faces her - 

				DAWN
		What are we going to do?

Taylor embraces her - she cries on his shoulder - 

				TAYLOR
		Shhhh...

Taylor holds her tightly, Dawn does the same as she cries - 

Taylor presses the side of his face against hers - 

				TAYLOR
		Shhh...

Slowly their faces get closer to one another - 

They pull back slightly and look at one another - Taylor wipes a tear from under
Dawn's eye - 

He then gently kisses her forehead, then her cheek - 

They then look at one another for a beat - 

Then, very softly, they kiss - the kissing becomes more intense - they then stop
and hug each other for dear life - 


				DAWN
		I never thought this would
		happen.  No premonitions, nothing.

				TAYLOR
		It did.  It is.  There's nothing
		we can do about that.

				DAWN
		Except write our wills.

Taylor looks at Dawn for a beat - 

				TAYLOR
		I'd like to do something before
		that.

Dawn looks at Taylor, not quite sure what he means - 

Taylor looks directly into Dawn's eyes - 

				TAYLOR
		Will you marry me?

				DAWN
			(Beat)
		Marry you?

				TAYLOR
		That's right.  Will you marry me?

Dawn looks at him for a beat - 

				DAWN
		I would, but no one can perform
		the ceremony.  I guess it doesn't
		matter.

				TAYLOR
		It would matter to us.

They look at each other for a beat - 

				DAWN
		In that case, I accept.  

				TAYLOR
		Good.  In that case, I pronounce
		us man and wife.

Taylor and Dawn then kiss - Dawn wipes some tears away - 

				DAWN
		What about a ring?

Taylor looks around the room - he sees something - 

CLOSE on the half smoked corona sitting on the edge of a console - the BAND around
it is still intact - 

Taylor removes the band and approaches Dawn - 

Dawn extends her hand and Taylor slips the ring on - 

				TAYLOR
		It's all I could do on such 
		short notice.

The two look at each other gravely - then embrace as if for the last time -

				TAYLOR
		Let's go for a walk.

Dawn looks at him - 

				TAYLOR
		You know, for our honeymoon.
									DISSOLVE TO
EXT MOON SURFACE - NIGHT

Together in their respective space outfits, the two lone figures wander out on the
magnificent vista - 

They stop and look ahead - 

They see Earth in the distance - 

				DAWN
		Right now it's about 8 o'clock
		at home.  People are going to 
		work, kids are going to school...

				TAYLOR
		Try not to think about it.

Dawn looks at Earth and lets out a long, forlorn sigh - 

Just then something catches her eye - she turns - 

				DAWN
		Oh my God...
Taylor look at her, then turns in the direction she's looking - 

POV a small CRAFT approaches from far away - 


				TAYLOR
		Oh my God...

The two begin to walk toward the direction of the approaching ship - 

Like little ants on the surface, we see Taylor and Dawn as they cross the barren
landscape - 

The ship gets closer and closer - 

Taylor and dawn rush toward it - 

The ship gets closer and closer - soon a small WINDOW becomes visible - 

				DAWN
		What is it?!

				TAYLOR
		I don't know.  Wave to them!

Taylor and Dawn begin flailing their arms - 

The ship gets closer and closer - soon the image of some PEOPLE in the window
becomes visible - 

Taylor and dawn rush toward the craft, which prepares to make a landing - 

				TAYLOR
		They see us!  They know we're 
		here!

The ship's landing gear lowers, and a series of boosters position the craft for
final landing - 

Taylor and Dawn continue to wave - 

The people in the window become visible - 

POV we see a SHIP'S CAPTAIN look at them and wave - 

Taylor and dawn wave back, elated - 
Then Taylor notices something in the window - he squints to get a better look, then
his eyes widen - 

				TAYLOR
		It can't be...

POV we see MAC looking out the window - he sees Taylor and Dawn, and waves to them,
smiling faintly - 

				DAWN
		It is!

The ship lands - Taylor and Dawn hug, jumping up and down - 

The door to the ship opens - 

Taylor and Dawn approach - a CREW MEMBER in a spacesuit greets them - 

				CREW MEMBER
		Are you all right?

Taylor and Dawn nod - 

				CREW MEMBER 
		Are there any others?

Taylor looks back at the Star Princess, then back at the crew member - he grimly
shakes his head "no" - 

The crew member gestures to the two - 

				CREW MEMBER
		Come on aboard.

Taylor and Dawn approach the door, and slowly enter the 
ship - 

The ship door closes - 

				DAWN(V.O.)
		And so we were saved.  The freighter
		found Mac floating through the 
		void, quite by accident, and through
		this simple twist of fate two 
		little people made it off the moon.

The ship lifts off, and leaves the moon - 

The twisted wreckage of the Star Princess can be seen in the distance as the rescue
ship ascends - 

				DAWN(V.O.)
		Later we would find out the
		lifepod made it safely back
		to earth, where the adventures 
		of Anna Koros and Warren Wayne
		became the tabloid story of
		the year.

The ship turns and heads away - 

				DAWN(V.O.)
		As for Ryan Taylor and me, we
		decided to stay married after
		all, although we got new rings.
			(Beat)
		But for the time being, it was time 
		to head back to the comforting bonds 
		of a small blue planet called home.

The ship heads toward Earth - 

					DAWN(V.O.)
		It never looked so beautiful. 

  


THE END



Found on INFlow Screenplay Repository 
