
















                         DARK ANGEL

                            Pilot


                             by

                        James Cameron

                             and

                      Charles H. Eglee


















                                            SECOND DRAFT

                                            October 18, 1999




FADE IN:

EXT.  MOUNTAINS - NIGHT

A full moon rises over a white blanketed expanse of meadow
freshly dusted with powder.  In the distance, a dark wall of
pine rises into the crisp, blue-black night.  The landscape
is serene, tranquil, needing only airborne reindeer to
elevate it to Christmas card status.  Suddenly a young girl,
eight or nine years old, races into frame, LONG LENS STACK,
running for all she's worth.  Her hair is close-cropped, a
military buzz.  She wears only a nightgown, no shoes.  Her
bare feet blast through the snow as YOUNG MAX powers across
the open meadow.

A SUNGUN xenon spotlight moves across the ground like a death
ray, searching left and right among the trees.

ANGLE ON A SNOW COVERED MEADOW as the xenon beam sweeps the
trees nearby.  It passes on and the sound of the chopper
fades.  Out of the treeline bursts the running figure.

LONG LENS, WHIP PANNING with Max as she runs.  HEAR the sound
of her breathing, deep and regular, like a horse.  She runs
like a machine, no stumbling, no wasted motion.  Her breath
trails behind her in the frigid mountain air.  Closer now, we
see her nightgown is actually a hospital gown.

                     MAX (V.O.)
          The escape was not my idea.  I mean,
          escape to what?  We didn't know there was
          anything else.

Max reaches the treeline just as the xenon spot sweeps over
again.  It slashes bright light through the branches, then
moves away.  She looks up, taking deep, controlled breaths,
then runs.

EXT.  MOUNTAINS, NEARBY - NIGHT

A pack of snowmobiles are slashing through the trees, their
engines whining, ridden by black-clad SOLDIERS wearing
nightvision goggles and carrying rifles.

EXT.  SNOWSCAPE - NIGHT

Max runs through a thicket of trees into a clearing.  Behind
logs and tree trunks, several other children are concealed.
She joins them wordlessly, exchanging hand signals with the
oldest boy, ZACK.  There are eight of them, all about Max's
age, except for two older boys.  They have the same severe
haircuts.  Like Max, they are not dressed for the cold but
they don't seem affected by it.  We may notice that they all
have a curious looking mark on the back of their necks...a
bar-code.

Another child makes it to the rally point...a girl, JONDY.
She joins Max and they clasp hands.  The children look across
the meadow, hoping to see more coming, but Jondy is the last.
They hear distant POPS of gunfire.

The sound of the snowmobiles grows steadily louder.  Zack
points at his wrist, an imaginary watch, and makes a slashing
sigh with his hand.  Out of time.  With vigorous hand signals
he separates the children into escape-and-evade teams, two to
a team.  Max and Jondy are paired.  The children's manner is
clipped, military and much older than their years.

                     MAX (V.O.)
          It was Zack who said we had to leave.  So
          I guessed he saved my life... And I never
          even got the chance to thank him.

The kids nod perfunctorily to Zack and head off, running
through the trees in their teams of two.  Max indicates she
doesn't want to leave Zack alone but he reiterates the order
with sharp hand signals.  Finally, Jondy pulls Max by the
arm, leaving Zack, who scans the forest with bright, feral
eyes.

EXT.  BUILDING - NIGHT

Black-clad guards drag a struggling child who's been
recaptured toward an imposing building, some sort of research
facility.  Somewhere an alarm wails.

A figure, silhouetted by the lights of an approaching Humvee.
The man raises a walkie with one hand, keeping the other
buried in his pocket.  Security chief DONALD LYDECKER, 30s,
scans the dark forest as he speaks into the walkie.

                     LYDECKER
          This is Lydecker.  I want you to capture
          if you can.  But if any of them make it
          to the perimeter, you are to terminate.
          Is that understood?

                     VOICE
               (on radio)
          Confirming, Sir, you're giving an order
          ten-oh-six.

Though it is more question than confirmation.

                     LYDECKER
          I'll take responsibility.  If they reach
          the outer fence...shoot to kill.

Lydecker jumps into the Humvee as it pulls up next to him.
They roar off into the woods.

EXT.  WOODS - NIGHT

Max and Jondy sprint through the trees.  They reach a
chainlink fence topped with barber wire.  Jondy climbs a
nearby tree, runs out along a limb.  She leaps out into
space, plants her hands on the top row of the wire and does a
gymnast's vault over it, into a perfect dismount in the snow.
Max follows.

ANGLE THROUGH NIGHTVISION SCOPE...the thermal signatures of
the two girls at the fence look like luminous ghosts in a
green landscape.

TIGHT ON a trooper, scope to his eye, moving his finger to
the trigger of his rifle.

WHAM!  He is tackled from the side by a blurring shape.  He
hits the ground and struggles to raise the weapon...seeming
to go into slow motion as--

WHAP!  Zack knocks the weapon cartwheeling out of his hands
with a sweeping roundhouse kick, then swings a hunk of broken
branch like a Louisville Slugger.  The trooper drops and
stays down.

AT THE FENCE Max lands in a snowdrift on the far side, then
spins around in a crouch as headlights hit her.  For a split
second her pupils flash with a green glow like a cat's eyes.
Through the chainlink fence she sees black figures surround
Zack, silhouetted by the headlights of arriving snowmobiles.

IN SLOW MOTION one of the troopers fires a tazer at Zack.
Moving in real time (and thus much faster than the scene
around him, which remains in slo-mo) Zack ducks the flying
tazer dart.  It embeds in a soldier behind him who is jump-
started by the 150,000 volts.  Zack smashes the tazer-firing
guy with the log and leaps toward another when--

Five troopers fire tazers simultaneously and--

Zack ducks and spins, dodging, but--

One of the darts connects and he lights up, convulsing as--

Two more troopers run up and fire at close range and--

Zack goes down, making spasmodic snow angels.

Max stares in horror as Zack is set upon by the human wolves.
Jondy grabs her and yanks her away.  They sprint across a
clearing and over a frozen pond toward the sheltering woods
beyond.  The xenon searchlight rakes the trees near them.  We
HEAR snowmobiles converging.

Max, trailing Jondy by a few feet, drops suddenly as the ice
beneath her gives way.  Jondy goes back to pull her out,
lying on the ice and reaching out.  Max grabs Jondy's hand,
but as she pulls herself up out of the hole, the edge breaks
away and Max falls back.  Jondy looks up at the sound of
snowmobiles, and the xenon spotlight raking through the woods
toward them.

                     MAX
          Go on... GO!

                     JONDY
          No.  We stick together.

                     MAX
          Go, Jondy.  I'll find you.

With that, Max takes a big gulp of air and disappears under
the water.

                     JONDY
          Max...

But she's gone.  Jondy looks up to see soldiers running
toward the fence.  Some of them kneel, raising their rifles.

Jondy sprints for the woods.  The xenon spotlight finds her.
KAPOW!  POW!  POW!  Snow explodes around her as the bullets
whiz by.  She makes the treeline as bark is blasted off the
trees next to her.  Jondy runs on, into the black woods.

Humvees smash through the fence, followed by snowmobiles and
running men.  One of the Humvees stops next to the pond,
Lydecker jumps out.  He is met by a LIEUTENANT.

                     LIEUTENANT
          We've got seven so far...three wounded,
          two killed.  And my men are taking a
          helluva beating.

                     LYDECKER
          Just get them, Lieutenant.  It's your ass
          if one of them makes it to the outside.

                     LIEUTENANT
          Realistically, Sir, it's ten degrees out
          here.  How far can these kids get?

                     LYDECKER
          Find them.

Lydecker lights a cigarette, holding it in one bare hand.
The hand which flicks the lighter is sheathed in a tight
black leather glove.  He gets into the Humvee and goes.  PUSH
IN ON the ice where Lydecker had been standing.  Back-lit by
the eerie, blue-green glow of the sungun refracted through
the water we see--

MAX

underwater, her face pressed against the ice looking upward,
very much alive, eyes wide with fear--

                                                 DISSOLVE TO:

THE SAME PAIR OF EYES

PULL BACK to find Max, now a girl of eighteen.  Her brown
eyes are piercing, her dark hair alive in the wind framing
her beautiful face.

                     MAX (V.O.)
          Sometimes it seems like it happened to
          someone else.  Like maybe it was a story
          I heard... The hardest part is not
          knowing...if any of them made it.  If I
          knew for sure I was the only one left, it
          would be worse.  At least now I can make
          up lives for them... Like maybe Jondy's
          a fashion photographer...or an architect.
          The truth is they'd just be like me...
          living on the run, always looking over
          your shoulder.

As we continue PULLING BACK we see that she is seated atop
one tower of the Golden Gate Bridge, the city of San
Francisco glimmering in the background.  How she got up
there, we have no clue.

                     MAX (V.O.)
          Hope is for losers.  It's a con job
          people trip behind until they finally get
          a grip on the cold hard truth... But
          still I...hope they're out there,
          somewhere...some of them.  And that
          they're okay.

OFF MAX

staring into the night.

                                                SMASH CUT TO:

MAIN TITLES

INT.  MAX'S CRIB - DAY (DAY ONE)

EXTREME CLOSE UP ON MAX, present day, her eyes shut tight,
flinching from the inner concussion of--

FLASH CUTS

Grainy, black and white images seen in EXTREME CLOSE UP, with
an almost abstract expressionist quality:

A line of children, heads shaven, saluting.  Small feet in
boots marching in unison.  There is only a roaring, rushing
sound, and a kind of word-babble of distorted, amplified
commands... PA speakers, megaphones.

MAX

in the present, hugs herself and trembles as the images play
through her head.

FLASH CUTS...

Young Max on a treadmill, wired and taped up with every kind
of sensing device and electrode, a tube taped in her mouth,
running with intense concentration.

TIGHT ON a pupil scanned by a laser.  Electrodes being
attached to a scalp.  A needle rising against a surgical
light.  TIGHT CUTS of abstract figures in medical smocks...no
faces.

An instructor standing against a large screen, gesturing with
a pointer to a tactical diagram made up of organized boxes
and acronyms.  TRACKING along bright young faces, taking it
in.  TIGHT ON graphics:  DUTY, DISCIPLINE, TEAMWORK.

LONG LENS STACK of kids marching in rows in a tiled hallway,
wearing grey pajama-like fatigues, the bar-code tattoos on
the backs of their necks visible as they strut past.  Stack
of kids doing push-ups.  Kids punching in unison in a martial
drill.  Young Max and another girl in fierce hand-to-hand
combat training.  Max's face is a mask of ferocity as she
attacks.  She punches hard and--

BANG!  A bathroom mirror slams shut.

INT.  BATHROOM - DAY

Max, in color and present day, looking at herself, then
glances down at her hand, which is shaking with a tremor.
She clenches it into a fist and then bends to splash cold
water on her face.  She uncaps some pills, pops two in her
mouth.

                     GIRL'S VOICE (O.C.)
          It sucks.

                     MAX
          What sucks?

As she starts brushing her teeth.

WIDE, showing Max's apartment and her roommate, KENDRA, who
is wearing a long T-shirt and a hungover look, sipping
coffee.  We see that the apartment is an unfinished building,
a luxury high-rise in the making until the day construction
simply stopped.  The walls are taped drywall, spray-painted
with colorful undulating graffiti by somebody's old
boyfriend.  This is where Max and Kendra have been crashing
for the last several months.  Dominating the room are Max's
babies...her bikes:  an ugly but fast messenger bicycle...and
a much faster rice-burner motorcycle with a race faring.

                     KENDRA
          I come home, it's three a.m., you're
          still out.  I feel like I got hit by a
          cement truck and you been up for an hour
          bouncing around.  That by definition
          sucks.

Max swishes some bottled water and spits, wiping her mouth
with the back of her hand.

                     MAX
          I made you coffee.  That oughta help you
          cope with the injustice of the world a
          little.

                     KENDRA
          Thanks, it's starting to kick in.
               (another sip)
          I feel almost human.

                     MAX
          Yeah, me too.

She studies herself in the mirror, her expression enigmatic.

                     MAX
          Almost.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  CORRIDOR - DAY

Max wheels her bike out of the apartment which has no door,
only a piece of plywood which she slides across the opening.
Max has a big glazed jelly donut in her mouth, which she will
eat throughout the following scene.  The corridor is lit by
sunlight leaking in from outside.  No utilities.  No rent.
No problem.  As she makes her way along the corridor we HEAR
music and somewhere a TV blares the news.  She passes a young
Chinese woman doing Tai Chi in a splash of sunlight from a
window.  Max stops at a doorway.

                     MAX
          Knock, knock.

Inside is THEO, 30, his wife JACINDA, and their little boy,
OMAR.  Jacinda is putting first grade reading books into a
knapsack for Omar, who is dawdling with his breakfast.  Theo
sits on the edge of the bed, hunched and pale.

                     MAX
          Hi guys.
               (to Theo)
          Let's roll, hotshot.

Theo looks longingly at his bicycle, leaning against the
wall.  He coughs.  Jacinda flashes a worried look at Max.

                     THEO
          Gotta take a personal day.  Whatever it
          is I got, I'm bitin' it bad.

He hugs himself, shivering visibly.

                     MAX
          It's payday, need me to pick up your
          check?

                     THEO
          You're the best, Maxie.

                     JACINDA
          Come on, little bit, you're gonna be late
          for school.  Three more bites.

                     OMAR
          Two more.

                     JACINDA
          But big ones.
               (to Max)
          Everything's a negotiation.

Max winks at Omar, who winks back.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  MAX'S BUILDING - DAY

Max squeezes out through a chain-link gate which is loosely
chained shut.  Behind her looms the unfinished building.  The
ground floor is boarded up with plywood commandeered during
the night by some street artist for a mural of an anime-style
boy wearing shades, collar up, blowing a puff of smoke into
the open mouth of a beautiful, full-lipped, wickedly made-up
anime-style girl.  Max hops on her bike and takes off with
powerful strokes down the street.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

TIGHT ON MAX'S LEGS

as she pumps the pedals of her bike, muscles flexing under
cafe au lait skin.

CLOSE ON MAX

breathing in a regular, easy rhythm as she power up a long
hill.  We get the sense that she is not working even close to
capacity.  Nevertheless, she is flying, gracefully weaving
among the cars and foot-traffic.

WIDE

as Max pumps her bike through the streets bustling with
activity.  A normal day in the city two decades from now.

Things have changed by the year 2020, but in subtle ways.
The skyline is the same, not transformed by gleaming
megastructures.  There are no Jetson flying vehicles
glittering among the high-rises.  It is a city frozen in
time, stopped dead in the tracks of progress.  But it is far
from a deserted place.  On the contrary, the streets are more
alive than ever.

Max bunny-hops a curb, side-skids around a tight corner and
barrels down a split-lane between a bunch of sluggishly
moving cars, mostly older models from around the turn of the
century, the last time people could afford to buy anything.
They are primered and held together with tape and wire.  Many
of them have been retrofitted with alcohol fuel tanks.  Among
these beaters run the micromini commuter cars which came
later-- little plastic pieces of crap which look almost like
kids' toys, powered by motorcycle engines.  There are
delivery boys on scooters, and big, new, hybrid-powered SUV's
with class-2 armor and tinted windows driven by gangsters and
their street muscle.  As always, gangsters are the only ones
prospering in hard times.

A lot of people use bicycles as their primary form of
transportation-- housewives, secretaries, businessmen.  The
bike messengers, like Max, hate them more than the cars,
because they clog the sidewalks and lanes between traffic
with their slow wobbling.

At major intersections, National Guard armored personnel
carriers and Humvees squat ominously.  There are checkpoints
throughout the city, with sand-bagged guard stations.  The
bored-looking soldiers stand around smoking, their assault
rifles slung casually.  They flirt with secretaries on their
way to work, and talk to passing school kids.  Occasionally,
they pull a car out of the line and shake the driver down,
going through the trunk and pulling his possessions out onto
the sidewalk.  It's bullshit, third-world martial law gone
stale.  A way of life.  Just part of the landscape.

Max brakes to a stop at a sand-bagged checkpoint.  She
flashes the plastic ID clipped to her vest to a YOUNG
SOLDIER, along with a too-big smile.

                     MAX
          Jam Pony Messenger.

He smiles back and waves her through, checking her out as she
goes.

                     YOUNG SOLDIER
          Have a good one.

Women and men stand listlessly in endless lines outside
stores, waiting their turn to buy from the paltry selection
on the half-empty shelves.

                     MAX (V.O.)
          They used to say one nuclear bomb can
          ruin your whole day.  It was sort of a
          joke until the June morning those
          terrorist bozos whacked us with an
          electromagnetic pulse from eighty miles
          up... You always hear people yappin' on
          how it was all different before the
          pulse...land of milk and honey, blah blah
          blah, with plenty of food and jobs and
          things actually worked.  I was too young
          to remember so...whatever.

Cops in heavy riot armor walk through the crowds and cruise
the traffic in patrol cars which have been retrofitted with
polycarbonate shields over the windows and kevlar armor
panels over the doors.  Among those walking with purpose are
tides of homeless.  The high unemployment caused by the
economic collapse has led to a homeless population not seen
since the Great Depression almost a century before.  They
live in makeshift colonies under freeway overpasses, in
abandoned cars and parking structures.  They've been living
there for years, some with a lot of creature comforts-- putt-
putt generators running TV sets, that sort of thing.

                     MAX (V.O.)
          Thing I don't get is why they call it a
          depression.  I mean, everyone's broke but
          they aren't really all that depressed...
          Life goes on.

RACK FOCUS

from Max as she passes to a young mother, who lives in a
gutted car, sending the kids off to catch the school bus.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  JAM PONY X-PRESS - DAY

An overhead fluorescent flickers.  This is the nerve center
of JAM PONY X-PRESS, San Francisco's oldest messenger
service, founded sometime in the early years of the 21st
Century.  The crew of messengers, mostly in their 20's, of
various ethnicities, includes SKETCHY, DRUID, A.K.A., et al.
They drink coffee and half-watch an ancient TV hung from the
ceiling while they wait for assignments.  HERBAL THOUGHT,
30's, full-dressed Rastaman, stoned (it being 9:15 already),
bums tobacco and rolling papers from Sketchy as he makes his
case to a very pissed boss, NORMAL, 40's, beefy, so-named
because he's always pissed off.

                     HERBAL
          Nobody there to sign for it, mon.  What's
          a bruddah s'posed to do, ride around all
          day with the damn package?

                     NORMAL
          So you just decided to return it to the
          sender.  Or, in this case, the sender's
          wife.

                     HERBAL
          Like de prophets say, "Only the
          unrighteous husband sends expensive gift-
          wrapped underpants to another woman."

Normal heads behind the shipping counter which is cluttered
with packing slips, mailing tubes, etc.

                     NORMAL
          Which is none of your business...or mine.

                     HERBAL
               (nods assent)
          It concerns only Jah.  But, in this case,
          I was the instrument of the Most High.

                     NORMAL
          Yeah, well around here, I'm the Most
          High... From now on, before you do
          anything, call in for instructions.

In b.g. PICK UP and STAY WITH Max, who enters on her bike,
ignoring the sign which reads:  YOUR BIKE IS TO RIDE NOT TO
BRING INSIDE.  Normal's reaction suggests this is a habit
he's given up trying to break her of.  He shoves a package at
Herbal just to get rid of him.

                     NORMAL
          This is a hot run.  Beat it.
               (to Max)
          You're late.

                     MAX
          I was on call.
               (indicates her pager)

                     NORMAL
          I want you on call here.

                     MAX
          What's the difference if I'm on call here
          or deployed in the field.

                     NORMAL
          More like deployed in bed asleep.

                     MAX
          I don't sleep... Theo asked me to pick
          up his check.

                     NORMAL
          And Theo can't pick up his own check
          because?...

                     MAX
          He's sick.

                     NORMAL
          For a change.

                     MAX
          How 'bout you don't break my sneakers on
          this.  The guy is seriously not well.

Max just looks at him.  Finally, Normal relents, reaches into
a drawer, hands her a pay envelope.

                     NORMAL
          You tell Theo he's not in tomorrow he can
          start looking for another job.

                     MAX
          I don't know how to break this to you,
          Normal, we're all looking for another
          job.

Max crosses to a row of lockers where her home girl, ORIGINAL
CINDY, Black, 22, dressed in leather, stiletto nails, ghetto
fabulous, slams her locker shut, pissed off.  Max regards her
a beat then--

                     MAX
          Morning, Sunshine...

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Caught some son-of-a-bitch stealing my
          bike.  Used a car jack to blow out my U
          lock and bent a bunch of spokes.  So now
          I gotta get my wheels fixed.

                     MAX
          At least he didn't swing with your ride.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          No, but I broke a nail giving him a
          cranium crack and that just sort of
          wrecks your day, know what I'm saying?

She looks over as NATALIE, clean cut, 20, arrives, crosses to
her boyfriend Sketchy and presents him with a box of cookies
and a kiss.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Now, why can't I find a girlfriend like
          that?  Brings him lunch everyday,
          thoughtful, sweet, legs from here to
          there--

                     MAX
          Straight.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Shame, wastin' a girl like that on a guy,
          but what're you gonna do?

Sketchy approaches, proffering the box of cookies.

                     SKETCHY
          Homemade.  Natalie baked them for our
          anniversary.  The big one-oh.

As Max dives in.

                     MAX
          The big one-oh?

                     NATALIE
          We went on our first date ten months ago
          tonight.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Congratulations.

Original Cindy and Max exchange a look, then Original Cindy
heads off, passing a--

TV SCREEN

as the regular programming turns to snow, replaced after a
moment by the pixelated image of the pirate cyber-journalist
known to the masses as "EYES ONLY."  As someone cranks up the
volume, PAN around the faces in the room who listen in rapt
attention.

                     EYES ONLY
               (on screen)
          Do not attempt to adjust your set.  This
          is a Video Free America bulletin.  The
          cable hack will last exactly sixty
          seconds.  It cannot be traced, it cannot
          be stopped, and it is the only free voice
          left in this city...

        SKETCHY                       EYES ONLY)
Is this guy for real?            (on screen)
                             There are certain men who
                             move through the world with
        MAX                  impunity.  Their actions, no
   (bored skepticism)        matter how vile, are immune
Who knows...                 from consequence.  Edgar
                             Sonrisa is such a man.  You've
                             seen him smiling at political
        DRUID                fund-raisers, sitting at the
He ever been wrong           Mayor's table drinking
about anything?              champagne.  He owns shopping
                             centers, a trucking company
                             and the largest medical
        MAX                  supply company in San
You ask me, he's on the      Francisco.  He also runs drugs
hustle same as everyone      and guns up and down the west
else.                        coast.  He's very publicly,
                             very obviously dirty.  But he
                             has never been arrested...
Someone shushes her.         never indicted.  Journalists
                             who have attempted to expose
                             him have been gunned down in
        DRUID                the street.  Their blood is
Doesn't mean he's not        the ink of our modern news.
telling the truth.           Those who've opposed him have
                             vanished... All of that is
                             about to change...

                     MAX
          Doesn't mean he is.

Max turns and heads off.

                     HERBAL
          Just hope Jah's looking out for his ass
          'cause he's messing with the brimstone,
          bruddah.

Off which--

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  INTERSECTION - DAY

Max and Sketchy are stopped at a light together.  Max
practices balancing her bike at a dead stop, seeming to defy
gravity, staying upright without a foot on the ground.

                     SKETCHY
          Major negativity heading this-a-way.

Off Sketchy's nod Max glances up at--

MAX'S POV

Six clean-cut, young kids walking abreast on the sidewalk-- a
little too clean-cut... They're STRAIGHT EDGE KIDS, the
American equivalent to Islamic fundamentalists, only with
buzz cuts, wife-beater T's, tats, chuks, etc.  They shove
aggressively through the crowd.  Ahead of them, two teenagers
are making out on a bus bench, lip-locked and oblivious.  The
Straight Edgers grab them and start beating the shit out of
them.  Nobody intervenes.

                     SKETCHY
          Someone oughta drop a little science on
          these straight edge idiots.

Max's expression is stony, her eyes cold.

                     MAX
          Not my problem...or yours.

The light changes and Max is gone.  Sketchy hesitates, then
goes after her.  Max strokes along in high gear, rocketing
between the cars.  Sketchy can barely keep up.

About three stories up, a police HOVERDRONE scans the street
below as it glides between the buildings with an annoying
whine.  It looks like a flattened flying donut, two feet
across, painted PD blue-and-white, with a ducted rotor in the
middle.  It is bristling with antennae and cameras-- visible
range and infrared.  As it sails across some of the lower
rooftops, we see a lot of jerry-rigged solar panels where
people are trying to cope with the constant brown-outs and
blackouts.

Hearing the drone overhead, Max pulls her ball-cap down a
little lower.  She doesn't want to wind up on the
surveillance monitors at headquarters.

                     MAX
          Catch you back at the wall.

                     SKETCHY
          Later.

Sketchy waves, peeling off at an intersection to go south.
Max powers on.

She passes through the stalls of a street market where all
manner of junk and homegrown produce is hawked.  The economy
is half barter these days.  Stall owners loudly hawk expired
canned goods, military MREs, backyard carrots, surplus
parachute silk, ammo, or flour bulked out with spirulina from
the government tank farms.

Max smokes down the hill between the stalls.  She puts two
fingers to her lips and whistles shrilly.  Ahead, a stall
owner, BEN, looks up to see her coming and fires a tomato
toward her as she passes.

Across forty feet of crowded street, at a full clip, Max
catches the tomato with one hand, calls--

                     MAX
          Hit you back later.

The stall owner turns to his wife and chuckles.

                     BEN
          Never seen her miss.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  HIGH-RISE DISTRICT - DAY

Max pulls up in front of a building in the old financial
district.  She hops off and pulls a pin in the frame of her
bike, folding it double.  Then she hefts it onto her shoulder
and walks into--

INT.  LOBBY - DAY

Max walks up to the GUARD at the desk behind a mesh-steel
cage.

                     MAX
          Delivery...1906.

                     GUARD
          No bikes in the elevator.

Wordlessly, Max jams it at him, all attitude, then locks it
to the cage and walks toward the elevator.

INT.  ELEVATOR - DAY

Max rides up in a glass elevator with a good view of the
high-rise district in b.g.  The inside of the elevator glass
is scarred with graffiti.

                     MAX (V.O.)
          This was s'posed to be the financial
          district, back before the banks closed.
          America really thought they had it dialed
          in-- money hangin' out the ass.  But it
          was all just a bunch of ones and zeros in
          a computer someplace.  So when that bomb
          went KA-BLOOEY and the electromagnetic
          pulse turned all the ones and zeros into
          plain ol' zeros, everyone's like "no
          way."  Now America's just another broke
          ex-super power looking for a handout and
          wondering why.

INT.  19TH FLOOR LOBBY - DAY

Max hands the envelope to a secretary who signs the receipt.
Max's eyes rove the room, alert.  Scanning.

INT.  19TH FLOOR CORRIDOR - DAY

Max exits the suite and pauses by the window at the end of
the corridor.  Something catches her eye.

CLOSE-UP OF MAX

her eyes scanning.

MAX'S POV

The building next door, another high-rise a few floors
shorter.  It appears to be abandoned but Max's attention
focuses on the tenth floor balcony where several security
camera track slowly back and forth.  She sees movement...a
human figure...behind the dark glass of one of the windows.

Max walks back along the corridor.  She looks around and,
with no-one in sight, ducks through the emergency stairwell
door.

INT.  STAIRWELL - DAY

Max moves fluidly down the stairs, her body-English
transformed into something feral...catlike.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  BUILDING - STREET LEVEL - DAY

The steel fire door opens and Max emerges.  She looks alertly
up and down the loading dock at the back of the building,
then opens her fanny pack and takes out a small roll of
packing tape, which she uses to compress the latch.  She goes
back inside, closing the door, which now is not locked.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  LOBBY - DAY

Max emerges from the elevator and claims her bike from the
guard station.

                     MAX
          Later.

The guard buzzes her out and she crosses the lobby, keeping
her head tilted slightly down so her hat bill blocks her face
from the surveillance cameras.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  THE WALL - DAY

The gathering place for bike messengers from all over the
city.  This is where they hang out, play hacky-sack, smoke
cigarettes, score dope, etc.  Max glides up to Sketchy who is
sitting cross-legged atop the wall.

                     MAX
          's up.

Sketchy nods across the street where an SUV, a gangster ride
with tinted windows, is parked outside a Chinese restaurant.
A mob enforcer stands guard outside the door.  Inside, we see
another gangster holding the owner's hand over a fry-o-lator
full of boiling canola oil.  The enforcer barks his demands.
We can't quite make out the words but it's clear what's going
down.  The restaurant owner, an Asian man in his 50's, pleads
for mercy while his terrified wife, unable to take it
anymore, rushes to retrieve a wad of cash from a cabinet.
Outside on the sidewalk, a uniformed cop walks past.  The
commotion inside draws his attention, but seeing the enforcer
guarding the door, who nods, the cop hurries on.

                     SKETCHY
          Fog City's finest.

Max looks at her watch, then--

                     MAX
          Quitting time.  Grab a cold one?

                     SKETCHY
          I gotta meet Natalie for dinner.

                     MAX
          Right, the big one-oh.

                     SKETCHY
          But I'll take a rain check...

He smiles and pedals off.  STAY WITH him.  But as soon as he
rounds the corner, he stops at a pay phone, looks to make
sure the coast is clear, then dials.  After a beat, into the
phone--

                     SKETCHY
          Can I talk to Natalie?
               (then)
          You're not going to believe this.  I'm
          walkin' out the door and my idiot boss
          sticks me with a delivery way the hell
          out in the East Bay somewhere.  So I'm
          not gonna be able to make dinner... I
          know it's not fair... I begged, I
          pleaded, I pissed, I moaned, but I gotta
          do what I gotta do... We'll do something
          special, I promise... I love you too.
          Mousetrap.  Kisses.

He hangs up, locks his bike to a pole, bolts up the steps of
a townhouse across the street and rings the doorbell.  After
a moment LYDIA MEYERSON, late 40's, appears at the door.

                     SKETCHY
          Sorry I'm late but--

She silences him, planting a big wet one on his mouth.  Off
Sketchy in the arms of another women, as the door closes--

                                                    FADE OUT.

                        END OF ACT I



                           ACT II

FADE IN:

INT.  ZEITGEIST BAR - NIGHT (DAY ONE)

The city's bike messenger hang.  LAMAR, long, stringy hair,
big gut, bigger mouth, works the bar.  A big-screen TV
dominates the room, playing a continuous loop of car,
motorcycle, and truck crashes.  Seated at the bar along with
several of their pals, including Druid, Max munches nachos
while Original Cindy collects bets from assorted on-lookers,
then to Druid--

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          You in?

Druid coughs up some bills.  Original Cindy looks around.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Who else?

As Lamar approaches with drinks.

                     LAMAR
          What's the action?

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Max can repeat a fourteen-digit phone
          number by listening to the beep tones.

                     LAMAR
               (not impressed)
          Yeah...

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          On speed dial.
               (seeing he's intrigued)
          Buy-in's ten.

Lamar pulls out a bill and pushes it at Original Cindy, who
looks around.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Last chance...
               (no takers)
          Okay.  Let's do it.

The bar falls quiet.  All eyes are on Max as Lamar puts the
telephone on the bar, hits the speaker button.  The sound of
the dial tone seems to fill the room.  Max, all
concentration, closes her eyes.  A beat, then Lamar hits the
speed dial button and we HEAR a rapid-fire series of beep
tones.  Max opens her eyes as the CAMERA pushes in on her,
then equally rapid-fire--

                     MAX
          Seven-Nine-Six-Five-Seven-Three-Eight-One-
          Four-Two-Four-Six-Nine-Five.

Druid looks at the phone's display, sees she's correct, then
frustrated and amazed--

                     DRUID
          How'd you do that?

Max coolly extends an open palm and collects her winnings.

                     MAN'S VOICE (O.C.)
          I'll have a beer...since you're buying.

Max turns, sees DARREN McKENNEN, early 20's, too good
looking, her ex, judging from the lukewarm response.

                     MAX
          I wasn't.

She pockets the cash.

                     DARREN
          How're ya doin', Max.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          You mean until you showed up?

                     DARREN
               (ignores her)
          You're not still pissed?

                     MAX
          Why would I be pissed?

                     DARREN
          It was a complicated situation which
          could have been misconstrued, causing you
          to maybe take offense.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          'Cause you went out the back door and
          nailed her girlfriend?  Who would take
          offense to that?

                     DARREN
          Justine was not an unwilling participant.

An observation that buys him zero rhythm with the women.

                     DARREN
          Do you know why I went after Justine?

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          She was there...

                     DARREN
          Trying to have a relationship with you,
          Max, is like standing in a fog bank.  You
          know you're in the middle of something
          only you have absolutely no idea where
          you are.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          And when the fog lifted, there's Darren
          with his head under Justine's skirt.

                     DARREN
               (annoyed)
          Could you give us a moment.

Original Cindy moves off, then to Max--

                     DARREN
          I was crazy about you...am crazy about
          you.  But you keep everyone at arm's
          length like there's some great big dark
          something going on that-- I don't
          know... It's just that the more I tried
          to get close to you, the more you pulled
          away.

                     MAX
          I'm really glad we're having this
          conversation.  You're right.  I was angry
          at you.  But talking about it-- The
          scales have fallen from my eyes and I see
          now that it was all my fault.  Can you
          ever forgive me?

                     DARREN
          I see the perimeter defense system is
          still fully intact... At least I tried.

He goes.  Original Cindy drifts back.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Craps all over everything and everyone
          and then wants mommy to forgive him.

                     MAX
               (shrugs)
          What guys do.
               (to Lamar re: nachos)
          'Nother order.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          You're way more philosophical than I
          could ever be.

                     MAX
          I just don't go in with any expectations.

Just then Natalie approaches looking around the room for her
boyfriend.

                     NATALIE
          You guys seen Sketchy?

                     MAX
          Thought he was having dinner with you.

                     NATALIE
          He had to bail at the last minute on
          accounta some emergency run.  Thought
          maybe he stopped by here on the way home.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Haven't seen him.  But if we do--

                     NATALIE
          Hope he's okay.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          He probably just got stuck in traffic or
          something.

Natalie nods, moves off continuing her search.  Max considers
this a moment.

                     MAX
          That's odd...

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          What?

But Max shrugs it off, diverted by the arrival of the nachos
and is onto her next thought as she dives in.

                     MAX
          Tell me the truth.  Am I a female fog
          bank?

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          You're not seriously buying into Darren's
          nonsense.

                     MAX
               (without conviction)
          No.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          He was just trying to blame you 'cause
          he's a slut.

                     MAX
               (wanting to believe this)
          Yeah.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Hell yeah.  There's not the slightest
          grain of truth in anything that idiot was
          saying.  You are a totally down-ass
          female and a straight-up friend who
          happens to be a little...

                     MAX
          A little what?

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          You know what I'm saying.

                     MAX
          If I knew what you were saying, I
          wouldn't be asking.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          How long you and me known each other?

                     MAX
          A long time.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Long enough for you to pretty much read
          me like a book, right?

                     MAX
          Because you're probably my closest friend
          in the whole world.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          And back at ya.  Only there's a part of
          you that's... I don't know--

                     MAX
          A fog bank.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          More like a mystery... Which isn't bad.
          It's just kinduv...mysterious...

Max's pager goes off, she checks the number.

                     MAX
          Gotta go.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Where?

                     MAX
          It's a secret.

Max heads off, Original Cindy watching her go.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

Max hauls ass through the sparse traffic on her rice-burner
motorcycle.  She slows in the neon glare of a row of ratty
storefronts.  She turns in at a laundromat, hopping the curb
and driving her motorcycle right through the open door.

INT.  LAUNDROMAT - NIGHT

Max purrs the bike to the back of the place, bathed in a
fluorescent glare which makes her skin cyan and pallid.  A
heavyset woman of indeterminate age watches her warily, but
doesn't break rhythm as she folds clothes.  Max jumps off and
kickstands the bike.  She walks through a door in the back
into--

INT.  CORRIDOR/OFFICE - NIGHT

A short, dingy corridor leads to the lit-up office of a
laundromat manager, DAN VOGELSANG, who also runs a private
detective business out of the place.  Max pushes the door
open and walks in, catching Vogelsang mid-bite in a meatball
sandwich.

                     VOGELSANG
          I asked you to keep that thing outside.

                     MAX
          You did.

                     VOGELSANG
          You drive away business roarin' in like
          that.

                     MAX
          Yeah, does kinda break the elegant
          atmosphere you got goin' on here.

                     VOGELSANG
          You got a punk-ass mouth on you, kid.

                     MAX
          My name's not kid.  It's client.  As in
          the person who pays for your opulent
          lifestyle.  Now, you got something for me
          or not?

                     VOGELSANG
          Right here someplace.

He goes through some piles of printouts, then pulls one out.

                     VOGELSANG
          I got a hit on the car.  An oh-five
          Tahoe, blue, with Wyoming tags...
          AGT349... It wasn't easy 'cause you were
          off in one of the numbers.

                     MAX
          Sorry, I was seven at the time.

FLASH CUT

as headlights flash into the lens, silhouetting Young Max
running across the road, barefoot on an icy highway.  She
freezes in the lights as the car skids up to her.

REVERSE CLOSE-UP

as she stands panting, wreathed in her own breath, her hair
matted with ice.  She looks terrified...

BACK TO PRESENT

Max coolly scans the printout.

                     MAX
          Who's this guy?  This isn't who we're
          looking for...her name was Hannah.

                     VOGELSANG
          He got the car in a trade for his old
          pick-up and some food...no bill of sale
          or nothing.  It was right after the pulse
          so all the DMV records were wiped.  So we
          don't get anything on the seller.  Except
          I actually managed to find this guy, six
          hours on the phone... Say thank you.

                     MAX
          Thank you.

                     VOGELSANG
          He says he got it from a woman.  Doesn't
          remember her name but she fits the
          description you gave like a glove.

FLASH CUT - TIGHT ON MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN

throwing open the door to a blue SUV.  The woman, HANNAH, is
dressed in a medical uniform, like a nurse or lab technician.
She looks anxiously back down the road as if she is being
followed, then yells--

                     HANNAH
          Get in!  Hurry, come on!

Young Max hesitates, clearly not knowing if she can trust the
woman's intention.  Finally, her bare feet slap the frozen
asphalt as she runs toward the car.

BACK TO PRESENT

Max is leafing through Vogelsang's notes.

                     VOGELSANG
          Guy says he made the trade in Gillette,
          Wyoming sometime in the fall of oh-nine.

                     MAX
          Then what?

                     VOGELSANG
          Then what?  That's it.  That's all I got.

                     MAX
          Nothing on Hannah?

                     VOGELSANG
          A nuclear airburst wipes out every record
          of every kind in every computer east of
          the Rockies, and you want me to find some
          woman you met when you were seven, whose
          last name you don't even know... Maybe
          if you could give me something more on
          her...anything you can remember, some
          detail...

FLASH CUT - YOUNG MAX

crouched under the dash of the Tahoe.  Light and shadow play
across her eyes as she looks up at the driver.

YOUNG MAX'S POV

Hannah, seen from below.  Her face is hit by flashing red and
blue lights.  A siren wails past, going the opposite
direction.  Hannah anxiously watches it recede in the
rearview.  She look down at the child curled up on the floor,
manages a smile, then reaches down and puts a comforting hand
on her head.

                     MAX
          She was a nurse.  She must've lived near
          there, somewhere, near the...
               (she pauses)
          ...the clinic.  There must be some
          registry of nurses or medical technicians
          or whatever for Wyoming.

                     VOGELSANG
          Only a last name would be nice.  Or the
          nearest town to this...clinic.

Max glances away.  The hopelessness of her quest hangs in the
air.

                     MAX
          What about the other kids?  You get
          anything on them?

                     VOGELSANG
          They don't exactly have a search engine
          for finding a bunch of kids with bar-
          codes on their necks, which is something
          I'm not even going to ask about--

                     MAX
          You were gonna run through the law
          enforcement databases for a match on
          identifying marks.

                     VOGELSANG
          Nothing so far from arrests, hospital
          admissions or coroners.  This kind of
          search...it's heavy spadework.  I'm gonna
          need--

                     MAX
          More money... Like I'm shocked to hear
          you say that.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  ALLEY - NIGHT - SEQUENCE OF TIGHT CUTS

MAX'S BIKE TIRE

slides to a stop.

THE WHEEL LOCKS

CLACK as they close.

EXTREME CLOSE-UP OF MAX

taking off her black glasses.  A distant car headlight sweeps
her and Max's pupils glow for a split second with a green
retinal reflection, like that of a cat.

WIDER

as Max looks up into the night shadows of an alley between
high-rises.  She steps off the bike in one lithe, perfectly-
balanced move.  She is wearing skin-tight black pants, black
rubber-soled high-tops, a black leather jacket and black
gloves.  She is a silhouette in the darkness.  She hefts a
black nylon gear bag over one shoulder.

TIGHT ON DOOR LATCH

The one Max taped over earlier in the day, as she pulls the
door open.

INT.  STAIRWELL - NIGHT

Max enters the dark emergency stairs like an inky shadow.
She bounds up the stairs with the fluidity of a cat.

EXT.  ROOF - NIGHT - MACRO ON DOOR LATCH

as it is quickly taped over.

WIDER

as Max emerges through the roof door and disables the roof
security camera with a piece of black tape over the lens.
She crosses to the edge overlooking the alley.  The street is
twenty-two stories down.  Nearby is the high-rise she studied
earlier in the day.  Her target is a narrow roof formed by a
setback in the facade of the next building...one hundred feet
below her and eight feet away horizontally.

TIGHT ON THE GEAR BAG

as it is unzipped.  Max's gloved hands yank out a large
bundle of black nylon rope.

CLICK! as a carabiner is snapped around a steel pipe.

TIGHT ON MAX'S FEET as she steps up onto the parapet.

DOWN ANGLE

as Max stands at the edge of a 250 foot drop then dives
headfirst out into the emptiness.

SEVERAL ANGLES ON MAX

as she plummets down the face of the building.  She adds arm
pressure to the belay around her waist, then inverts with a
snap, dropping feet-first now, the rope making a SSSSHHHH!
sound across her leather jacket.  Max now builds lateral
speed across the face of the glass high-rise.  She reaches
the bottom of the arc, the rope stretching, taking the shock,
and her lateral speed wipes the world into a blur.

Max arcs upward, starting to slow.  As she flashes above the
parapet of the target rooftop, she releases the belay and
lets the rope slide through her arm, dropping onto the
rooftop with a soft thump.

TIGHT ON SKYLIGHT

as Max jimmies the latch and lifts the cover.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  LUXURY APARTMENT FOYER - NIGHT

The apartment is spacious, with uptown architectural touches.
A cattail of black rope drops down, tickling the travertine
floor.  Max slides quietly to the floor and freezes in a
crouch.  Listening.  Nothing.

She goes to work, padding silently through the apartment.
She opens drawers, looks inside cabinets, picking up objects
and examining them.

INT.  ANOTHER ROOM - NIGHT

Max enters silently, hefts a small porcelain figurine, 17th
Century Venetian.  She slips it into her bag.  A pair of
small, gold dolphins follow.  Max hears something, goes to
investigate--

INT.  STUDY - NIGHT

A man talking.  Strokes on a computer keyboard.  The walls
are bathed in a blur CRT glow as Max slips the door open a
few inches and looks into the room.

MAX'S POV

A man sitting at a bank of computer monitors, half a dozen
screens, racks of computer gear and peripherals of all
descriptions.  The room is dark, excepts for the glow of the
screens and power lights winking on the equipment.  Haphazard
heaps of papers, photos, files, and printouts are piled
everywhere on expensive antique tables and couches.  The man,
LOGAN CALE, is speaking directly into a video camera.

                     LOGAN
          Eyes Only cannot be bought or threatened.
          And through the Eyes Only informant net,
          a truth-speaker has come forward.

Max can't see Logan's face directly because his back is
turned, but she can see him in one of the monitors--

TIGHT CLOSE-UP OF LOGAN

Late 20's with intense, almost haggard, yet strikingly
handsome features.  His eyes blaze with intelligence and he
projects a fierce energy as he speaks.

                     LOGAN
          The testimony of one fearless witness
          will soon lead to an indictment of Edgar
          Sonrisa for multiple counts of murder.

Max registers surprise as she realizes who this guy is-- the
pirate cyber-journalist "Eyes Only," in the flesh.

                     LOGAN
               (on video)
          The drug cortodiazapine is expensive, in
          short supply and much sought after as a
          cancer treatment.  It is shipped to
          veterans' clinics to treat the Balkan War
          Syndrome, a disease which is otherwise
          fatal.

Logan scrolls back through the video he has just digitized
and hits a key command which processes the image through a
masking filter.  Pixelation blurs the contours of his face,
leaving only the intense eyes clear.  He watches it to check
that the effect is complete.

                     LOGAN
               (on video)
          Sonrisa has been replacing the federal
          drug shipments with sugar pills, selling
          the real cortodiazapine on the Canadian
          black market for two thousand dollars a
          bottle.  What fuels the demand?  The
          belief that cortodiazapine could slow the
          effects of aging when taken in large
          doses.

Max backs out the door and stops as she sees something.  On a
table just inside the room, is a statue, an Egypto-deco
affair of gold and onyx depicting a creature half-female,
half-cat.  It's illuminated from above by a single pin-point
of light.  Max just looks at it, utterly transfixed.

                     LOGAN
               (on video)
          There is no hard scientific evidence to
          support these claims.  But that doesn't
          stop Edgar Sonrisa from peddling this
          drug to the few wealthy, privileged
          foreigners who can afford to pay any
          price for vanity's sake.

Seeing Logan's engrossed in his work, Max moves toward the
statue, snags it and backs out of the room.

                     LOGAN
               (on video)
          Edgar Sonrisa gets richer while combat
          vets exposed to the genetically-
          engineered bio-war agents go untreated.
          All over this city, they are repaid for
          defending this country by being allowed
          to waste away and die...a slow, agonizing
          death...

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  APARTMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Max stuffs the statue in her bag and heads back out.

INT.  FOYER - NIGHT

A security guard, PETER, has found the rope.  He flicks his
Maglite up to the open skylight and his eyes go wide.  He
unholsters his 9mm, scanning and listening around him.  He
crosses to the alarm panel near the door and punches in the
silent alarm code.

ANGLE ON FOYER AND CORRIDOR

as Max approaches.  The guard is scanning in the shadows, his
gun sweeping the room as he moves forward...and Max is moving
down the hall toward him on a collision course.  She can't
see him approaching the corner from the other side, but we
can.

TIGHT ON MAX

as she senses something on a level you and I never could...a
sound, a vibration...the guard's body heat perhaps.

OVER THE GUARD

as he approaches the corner.  He pops around the wall and
aims his gun down the hall.

REVERSE ANGLE

The corridor is empty.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Max backs away from the closed door and quickly crosses the
room as quietly as she can.  She reaches the door to an
adjoining room.

INT.  ADJOINING ROOM - NIGHT

Max slips through the door quietly, but suddenly stops.  Lit
only by a nightlight, a woman is lying on a bed with a young
girl of about 10, having just tucked her into bed.  This is
LAUREN BRAGANZA and her daughter SOPHY.  Lauren looks up,
locking eyes with Max.

                     LAUREN
          Oh my God!  In here!  IN HERE!

                     MAX
          SHHH!  Don't do that!

INT.  STUDY - NIGHT

Logan hears the cries, shoves aside a pile of papers and
grabs a pump shotgun.  He chambers a round.

INT.  HALLWAY - NIGHT

The security guard breaks into a run, heading for the
bedroom.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Lauren grabs a lamp and hurls it with all her strength at
Max.

In SLOW MOTION the lamp tumbles end over end.  The guard
flings open the door, sweeping his gun toward Max, all in
SLOW MOTION...except Max, who is moving much faster, though
normal to our eye, whereas everyone and everything else
appears as if underwater.

Max easily ducks the lamp, which is just shattering against
the wall as the guard takes aim with a two-handed grip.  The
room goes dark as the lightbulb explodes.

Max moves sideways before the guard can pull the trigger.
BLAM!  The room strobes with the shot but the bullet goes
where Max was, not where she is now...halfway to the guard,
moving like a freight train.

BLAM!  A second shot...but Max has seen the intention and
jinked again.  The bullet carves the air next to her.  She
reaches the guy and gets a hand on the gun, yanking it down
and around in a sweeping roundhouse which twists it out of
his hand.

This guy is big, 6'3" and 250 lbs., mostly muscle, except for
that paunch.  Max follows through with a footsweep takedown
and drops onto the guy hard with his arm twisted behind his
back.

Max unloads the pistol, sliding out the magazine and jacking
out the chambered round.  She throws the gun one way and the
mag the other.

BACK TO NORMAL SPEED, the guard struggles to move but Max
drops onto him knee first again, knocking the wind out of him
for awhile.  Max looks up at the terrified mother and the
crying little girl.

                     MAX
          Sorry.

She bolts out the door into--

INT.  HALL - NIGHT

Max sprints down the hall.  Suddenly, Logan appears in front
of her with the shotgun leveled at her.  It has a built-in,
mini-xenon light and it is blinding her nightvision, making
it hard to see exactly where he is aiming.  She is at a
momentary disadvantage.

                     LOGAN
          Put it down.

Max sets her bag gently on the floor.  Logan calls to
Lauren--

                     LOGAN
               (eyes riveted on Max)
          Lauren...are you okay?

                     LAUREN
          We're alright.

                     LOGAN
               (to the guard)
          Peter...

                     MAX
          If he's the side of beef with the walkie-
          talkie, he's okay but he'll be awhile.

Logan sees the statue peeking out of the open bag.

                     LOGAN
          You're a thief?

                     MAX
          Girl's gotta make a living.

                     LOGAN
               (relieved, even amused)
          Thank God.

                     MAX
          First time I ever heard that.

                     LOGAN
          I was expecting someone else.

                     MAX
               (off the shotgun)
          Guess it wasn't the pizza delivery guy.

                     LOGAN
          You're lucky.  I almost pulled the
          trigger.

Lauren is hanging back in the bedroom doorway with her crying
daughter.

                     MAX
          I'm sorry if I caught you at a bad time.

                     LOGAN
          We're just a little tense right now...
               (to Lauren)
          It's okay.

They withdraw, then to Max re: the statue--

                     LOGAN
          You have good taste.  French, 1920's,
          attributed to Chitarus.

                     MAX
          Whoever that is.

                     LOGAN
          So, what, you liked it because it was
          shiny?

                     MAX
          No, because it's the Egyptian goddess
          Bast.

                     LOGAN
          Who is...

                     MAX
          The goddess who comprehends all
          goddesses, eye of Ra, protector, avenger,
          and destroyer, giver of life, who lives
          forever... I could keep going.

Logan just looks at her, fascinated.  Then, Peter emerges
from the bedroom, holding his ribs.  He fumbles out his
handcuffs and heads for Max.

                     LOGAN
          Stay back, Peter.

Too late.  Max moves like lightning, grabbing Peter's wrist
as he reaches for her, yanking him off balance and getting
him in a sharply painful come-along hold with one hand bent
up behind his back.  Max has maneuvered him between her and
the shotgun, trumping Logan's hold over her.

                     MAX
          Look, I'd love to hang and discuss art
          but I gotta get going.

She marches Peter backwards into the living room, controlling
the big bodyguard with the thumb-hold and keeping him between
her and Logan.

                     PETER
          Aaaah!  Aaaah!  Easy, my wrist is gonna
          snap!

                     MAX
          That could happen.
               (to Logan)
          By the way, I love your show.

At that moment there is a thundering crash at the front door.
Max's head snaps around as a squad of private security cops
wearing ballistic armor haul back and pound the door again
with a steel battering ram.

INT.  FOYER - NIGHT

K-WHAM!  The doors are blasted open and a phalanx of heavily
armed rent-a-cops spill inside, their flashlights sweeping
the apartment.

SLOW MOTION as they raise their weapons toward Max.

But Max is moving like grease lightning, as she bolts away
from Peter, who finds himself suddenly handcuffed to a heavy,
wrought-iron table.

SLO-MO as the security squad, moving like they are submerged,
try to track her.  She runs like a black blur.  Logan yells
for them to stop, his words distended--

                     LOGAN
          Nooo!  Waaaiiit!

Max crosses her arms over her face and hits the window at a
full run.  The glass explodes outwards in a diamond shower.
Max disappears into the night, like she was never there.  The
cops don't even get a shot off.

REAL TIME as Logan runs to the window and looks down--

EXT.  BUILDING - NIGHT - LOGAN'S POV

He catches a glimpse of Max leaping from balcony to balcony,
down the face of the building, ninety feet below.  She
vanishes into the shadows at street level.

ON LOGAN

watching in fascinated awe as the curtains blow out around
him in the night wind.

                                                    FADE OUT.

                        END OF ACT II



                           ACT III

FADE IN:

INT.  GENEDYNE LAB

FLASHBACK

Dreamlike, stroboscopic images of military regimentation.  As
before, drained of color.  Kids at attention in LONG LENS
STACK.  One of the children, a boy with blonde hair, pitches
forward onto the floor, wracked by a seizure.

SUPERFAST INTERCUTS

INT.  MAX'S CRIB - DAY (DAY TWO)

TIGHT ON Max's hands yanking off a bottle cap, slapping pills
into her mouth.  WIDE as she slams her back into the bathroom
corner, hugging herself as she slides to the floor.

FLASHBACK

TIGHT ON the other kids, reacting only with their eyes, not
breaking ranks as the convulsing blonde boy is dragged away
by uniformed orderlies.  Some of the kids turn to watch and
the drill instructor charges forward, yelling.

ON MAX in the present, wracked by spasms.  Her body shakes
with muscle tremors as she clenches into a ball, eyes shut,
in her own world of pain and memory.

MONOCHROME FLASHBACK

A HIGH, WIDE shot of the barracks...kids in rows of steel
bunks.  All the beds are filled except one.  Young Max, lying
in the night shadows, stares at the empty bed.  She looks
down at her own hand with a look of fear, watching it shake.
She stuffs it under the sheet.

ON YOUNG MAX as she walks down the hall in grey boxers and T-
shirt.  The corridor is dark but light spills through a door
ahead.  She approaches slowly, hearing tech sounds and a low,
murmured dialogue.  The high-pitched sound of a medical saw.

MAX'S POV inside the room.  In a pool of halogen light, the
blonde boy lies naked on a stainless steel table surrounded
by doctors and med-techs.  We don't see exactly what they are
doing, but we HEAR the bone saw and we know it's an autopsy.
By Young Max's expression of horror, it is clear she thinks
they have killed him and are dissecting him like a frog.
Standing silhouetted between Max and the pool of light is a
man in a suit, not in medical greens.  He turns and picks up
a cup of coffee off a steel cart with one black gloved
hand... Lydecker.

Max backs away, then turns and runs along the corridor...
trips and sprawls...gets up and runs on.

CLOSE ON MAX, in the present...opening her eyes.  The morning
light is painful to her as she gets unsteadily to her feet.
She leans over the sink and pours water over her head from a
plastic jug.  Max heads out into--

INT.  LIVING ROOM - DAY

Max emerges and is stopped in her tracks by the sight of--

HER MOTORCYCLE

the handlebars of which are draped with Kendra's collection
of thong panties hung there to dry.  After a beat, Max
crosses to her bike, and removes the confections as she
speaks--

                     MAX
          Kendra...this is a motorcycle.  It's sole
          reason for being is to go fast.  Very
          fast.  It was not put on this earth for
          you to use as a clothesline.  I love you
          as a roommate and a friend, but, make no
          mistake, I love my motorcycle more.
          DON'T-TOUCH-THE-BIKE, OKAY?

As she tosses the handful of panties at the sleeping form
huddled under a blanket across the room, the form shifts,
then sits up revealing--

Darren, one arm wrapped around Kendra, who's snuggled next to
him, still asleep.

                     WARREN
          What time is it?

He blinks the sleep from his eyes, then, after a beat,
recognizing Max--

                     DARREN
          What are you doing here?

                     MAX
          I live here... Guess I don't have to ask
          what you're doing here.

                     DARREN
          You're roommates?

                     KENDRA
               (stirs awake)
          Some of us are trying to sleep.

                     DARREN
          You didn't tell me you lived with her.

                     KENDRA
          You know each other?

                     MAX
          He's a mistake I made about six months
          before you did.  But don't feel bad.
          Justine made the same mistake, along with
          Renee, Jada, Tia, Brooke--

                     KENDRA
               (recoils from Darren)
          Yech...

                     DARREN
          Nothing happened between me and Tia.

                     KENDRA
          Leave.  Now.

                     DARREN
          Can I say something in my defense?

                     KENDRA
          No.

                     MAX
          Everybody down.

As an aerial police drone hovers just outside the window, Max
dives for the floor.

                     DARREN
          What is it?

                     MAX
          Police drone.

Max watches as the drone floats past the window, its TV
camera sweeping the interior.  Finally, it sails off but
before anyone can register relief, HEAR the squawk of a
police loudspeaker outside the hallway.

                     MAX
          It's a sweep.
               (getting up)
          C'mon.

                     DARREN
          What?  Where're we going?

As Max and Kendra haul Darren to his feet, he grabs a hat or
a magazine or something, to cover his nakedness as they
propel him toward the window.

                     DARREN
          Lemme put some clothes on.

                     MAX
          No time.

As Max opens the window.

                     KENDRA
          Move it.

                     DARREN
          Where?

                     MAX
          Out there.

                     DARREN
          No way.

                     MAX
          Unless you wanna end up in jail, let me
          and Kendra handle the cops.

As they bundle him out onto the ledge--

                     DARREN
          But I'm afraid of--

                     MAX
          Don't look down.

Max slams the window shut, closes the blinds, and the two
girls crack up.

                     KENDRA
          What a creep.

                     MAX
          And for all his cattin' around, not much
          of a stick man either.

But the hilarity is short-lived when they hear the footfall
out in the hallway of a police platoon sweeping the building.

                     COP (O.C.)
          All unauthorized individuals vacate the
          premises or face immediate arrest.

Suddenly, the makeshift door is kicked in and a cop in full
riot gear enters.  He lifts the visor of his helmet,
revealing the square-jawed game face of LIEUTENANT WALTER
CLARKE.

                     CLARKE
          Ladies...

Max suddenly relaxes.

                     MAX
          Morning, Walter.  What's the good word?

                     CLARKE
          Just doing my part to keep the homeless
          problem from getting out of hand.

                     MAX
          Coffee?

                     CLARKE
          Read my mind...
               (as she pours him a cup)
          You haven't seen anyone trespassing
          around here?

                     MAX
          Gosh, no.

Max throws a look at Kendra, who retrieves an envelope and
hands it over to the cop with obvious irritation.  The cop
takes out the cash, counts it, then reaches for his walkie-
talkie.

                     CLARKE
          Seventh floor is vacant and secure.
               (pockets the money)
          Have a nice day.

He goes.  Kendra turns to Max.

                     KENDRA
          What's with you?  Every week this scumbag
          puts the squeeze on us and every week you
          roll out the welcome wagon like he's
          family.

                     MAX
               (shrugs)
          Just thought maybe he'd like a little
          coffee with his saliva.

                     KENDRA
          You didn't...

                     MAX
          Every week.

She makes a hawking sound and the two girls crack up.  Off
which--

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  BUILDING - DAY

Darren cools his heels, along with everything else, out on
the ledge.

                     DARREN
          Max?  Kendra?

Darren looks up as a police hoverdrone floats toward him.

                                                      CUT TO:

DARREN

full screen on a TV MONITOR.

                     DARREN
          C'mon guys...

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

another monitor, and another, and finally, an entire wall of
surveillance screens, half-watched by a couple of bored techs
in an underground police bunker somewhere.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  HALLWAY - DAY

Max wheels her bike down the corridor headed for work.
Jacinda cracks the door and peers out.

                     MAX
          It's cool.

Jacinda opens the door.  Max fishes in her jacket.

                     MAX
          Before I forget, Theo's check.  I got in
          late last night and didn't want to bother
          you.

She hands the check to Jacinda, who manages a smile which
only momentarily conceals the concern evident in her face.

                     JACINDA
          Thanks.

                     MAX
          How's he feeling?

                     JACINDA
          Took him to the hospital again.  They
          gave him some medicine but he says it's
          not helping.

                     MAX
          You know how it is.  You or me get sick,
          life goes on.  A guy get the sniffles
          and the world's coming to an end.

Jacinda nods, wanting to believe it's nothing serious, then--

                     THEO (O.C.)
          That you, Max?

Max enters--

INT.  THEO'S APARTMENT - DAY

Theo lies on a mat on the floor, too weak to prop himself up.
His breathing is labored.

                     MAX
          Playing hooky again?

                     THEO
          Feel like the dog's dinner.

                     MAX
          Probably a touch of what's going around.

                     THEO
          I know what I got, Max.  They put me back
          on that drug they're giving the other
          vets.  Only the guy does those cable
          hacks says the stuff's no good.

Max sees that the fear in his eyes is real, then covering--

                     MAX
          Don't believe everything you hear on TV.

                     THEO
          What if he's on the level?

                     MAX
          Here's the dealio on Eyes Only.  He's
          probably some wack rich dude sitting
          around in a trick-ass apartment, bored
          stupid.  So he gets off on scarin' the
          poop outta folks like you-- I gotta go.

                     THEO
          Tell everybody hey.

                     MAX
          You can tell 'em yourself tomorrow.

Max turns to go.  As she passes Jacinda--

INT.  HALLWAY - DAY

Jacinda is zipping up Omar's jacket.

                     MAX
          Like I said, guys are the weaker sex.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  LOGAN'S APARTMENT - STUDY - DAY

At his computer console, Logan fast-forwards through a video
surveillance tape from the previous day, freezing on Max as
she approaches the adjacent building with a delivery.  He
blows up the image until Max's face fills the screen, her
eyes looking right into the surveillance camera, right at
him.  He studies the picture for a long contemplative moment.
Peter enters in b.g., looks over at his boss.

                     PETER
          Glad you're getting your money's worth
          outta that tape.  Had to grease the guard
          a hundred for it.

But Logan doesn't even hear him.  He's utterly lost in the
image of Max onscreen.  Then--

                     PETER
          You tryin' to I.D. the perp, or a new
          girlfriend?

Logan snaps out of it, then--

                     LOGAN
          If I'd just gotten my ass kicked by a
          size five, I might be inclined to mind my
          own business.

Off which--

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  THE WALL - DAY

Max passes the time between runs playing hacky-sack with
another MESSENGER, who's showing off.  As she makes a tough
return--

                     MAX
          Like that?

                     MESSENGER
          Not bad for a beginner.

The other messengers are watching the volley as Sketchy rides
up, out of breath, a worried look on his face, hops the curb
and skids to a stop next to Max.

                     MAX
          Hey, Sketchy--

                     SKETCHY
          We gotta talk.

                     MAX
          What's up?

She spins and does a no-look return with her heel.  The other
messenger makes the save, registering surprise at Max's
dexterity.  Sketchy snags the bag in mid-air with one hand.

                     SKETCHY
          It's kinda important.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  ALLEY - DAY

Walk and talk as Sketchy lays it out for Max.

                     MAX
          You blew off your girlfriend last night,
          even though it was the big one-oh.  I'd
          be pissed off too if I was her.

                     SKETCHY
          Not half as pissed as she's gonna be when
          she finds out why I blew her off... I
          need your help, Max.

Max just looks at him.  Sketchy can't meet her gaze, then--

                     SKETCHY
          See, I've more or less been seeing this
          other person.

A beat, then coolly--

                     MAX
          I don't see how you cheating on Natalie
          involves me.

                     SKETCHY
          I know what you're thinking.  But the
          truth is, this other person is not
          someone I'm in love with.  As a matter of
          fact, after what she just did, she's not
          even someone I like much.  So in a
          technical sense, I'm not sure you could
          call me and her cheating...officially.

                     MAX
          Do guys actually believe their lame, self-
          serving excuses?

                     SKETCHY
          Max--

                     MAX
          Or do you think we're just so grateful to
          have one of you idiots we'll look the
          other way, which is arrogant and
          condescending.

                     SKETCHY
          Lame, self-serving, arrogant...guilty as
          charged.

                     MAX
          You left out condescending.

                     SKETCHY
          But there's another side--

                     MAX
          Here it comes.  The part where the guy
          turns everything around.

                     SKETCHY
          I'm the victim here.

                     MAX
               (sarcastic)
          Really?

                     SKETCHY
          Hear me out.  This person I've been
          seeing is a Jam Pony client who happens
          to be married--

                     MAX
          And you were a sympathetic ear.

                     SKETCHY
          Exactly.

                     MAX
          Then a sympathetic mouth, then a
          sympathetic--

                     SKETCHY
          She had me followed the other day and
          found out about Natalie.  Now, this
          person's demanding I blow her off or
          she'll do it for me by telling Nat about
          us.

                     MAX
          Does this person have a name?

                     SKETCHY
          Lydia.

                     MAX
          And Lydia telling Natalie the truth makes
          you a victim in what way?

                     SKETCHY
          I'm a toy to her.

                     MAX
          A toy?

                     SKETCHY
          She's as much as said so.  But she
          doesn't want to share her toy with anyone
          else... It's just an ego thing with her.

                     MAX
          Fight fire with fire.  Threaten to go to
          her husband.

                     SKETCHY
          Who either doesn't care, or could have me
          killed.  Either way, Natalie's still
          gonna find out.

                     MAX
          What happens if you level with her?

                     SKETCHY
          Even if she doesn't dump me, which is
          unlikely, she'd never be able to trust me
          again.

                     MAX
          And why should she?

                     SKETCHY
          Look Max, I made a terrible mistake.  One
          I'll never, ever make again.  Natalie and
          I are soulmates.  I know that now.  She's
          the woman I want to spend the rest of my
          life with.  I guess it took the thought
          of losing her for me to understand that.

After a beat, Max heaves a sigh, then--

                     MAX
          What is it you want me to do?

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  JAM PONY X-PRESS - DAY

Logan enters, looks around at the motley assortment of
messengers, then crosses to the dispatch counter where Normal
barks out an order.

                     NORMAL
          Pick-up at four-eleven Montgomery going
          to Pacific Heights.

He tosses a package to Herbal Thought.

                     LOGAN
               (to Normal)
          I'm looking for a lady who works here.

                     NORMAL
          Ladies would be elsewhere.

He flashes the picture of Max lifted from the surveillance
video.

                     LOGAN
          Know where I can find her?

                     NORMAL
          You don't want to.

                     LOGAN
          But she does work here?

                     NORMAL
          She may be easy on the eyes but she's
          trouble, trust me.
               (calls out)
          Hot run to two-oh-two Sansomme.

                     LOGAN
          I need to talk to her.

                     NORMAL
          Can't help you.

Logan pulls out a bill, extends it to him.

                     LOGAN
          How 'bout her name and address?

Normal eyes the money, then pockets it.

                     NORMAL
          Max something.  I got no clue where she
          stays.

                     LOGAN
          Any idea when she'll be back?

                     NORMAL
          None.

                     LOGAN
          I'll wait.

Logan plunks himself down in a chair to wait.  Normal sees
he's determined, then--

                     NORMAL
          She hangs out after work at a place
          called Zeitgeist.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  ZEITGEIST - NIGHT

As Max and Original Cindy play a game of eightball--

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          You're actually gonna bail Sketchy out.

                     MAX
          Yeah, 'cause maybe he's learned his
          lesson.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Unlikely.

                     MAX
          And because he's my friend.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Friends don't help other friends cheat.

                     MAX
          And because I actually kinda feel sorry
          for guys sometimes.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Please...

                     MAX
          They're prisoners to their genes.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          So are dogs.

                     MAX
          They don't have a lot of moving parts.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Only one I can think of.

                     MAX
          Besides, think of the drama I'm sparing
          Natalie.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          I say hang the bastard out to dry, let
          her see him for the heel he is, then
          maybe she'll step to the all-girl team
          and let mama-licious ease her pain.

                     MAX
          But, of course, there's nothing self-
          serving in that scenario.

Max looks up, sees Logan at the bar talking to Lamar, who
points in her direction.  As Logan crosses to her--

                     MAX
               (to Logan)
          So this guy walks into a bar and says...

                     LOGAN
          We didn't get a chance to finish our
          conversation the other night.

By way of introduction, without taking her eyes off Logan--

                     MAX
          Original Cindy, say hi to my good friend--

                     LOGAN
          Logan Cale.

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Hey.

But Max and Logan just stand there looking at each other.

                     MAX
          Sorry about your window.

                     LOGAN
          Can we go somewhere and talk?

Sensing that it's time to make herself scarce, Original Cindy
looks at her watch--

                     ORIGINAL CINDY
          Woop, Xena's on.

She splits.  Max and Logan look into one another's eyes,
transfixed.

                     MAX
          Lemme get my coat.

                     LOGAN
          The one you're wearing?

Finally, Max breaks their gaze, looks down, sees she's in
fact wearing it.

                     MAX
          Right.

They head out.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

Max and Logan walk in silence for a moment, an easy affinity
between them.  After a moment--

                     MAX
          How'd you find me?

                     LOGAN
          Wasn't that hard.

                     MAX
          Am I s'posed to be flattered by all the
          attention?

                     LOGAN
          Now you know who I am, where I live.  I
          figured I better find out who I'm dealing
          with in case you were looking to hurt me.

                     MAX
          So now you tracked me down.  What d'ya
          think?

                     LOGAN
          Too early to tell.

                     MAX
          How does Mrs. Eyes Only like being
          married to a guy on everybody's hit list?

                     LOGAN
          Lauren's not my wife.

                     MAX
          Girlfriend?

                     LOGAN
          One of my sources.  Her husband was
          murdered by Edgar Sonrisa.

                     MAX
          What's your shot in all this?  Being a
          famous, anonymous, underground, pirate,
          cyber-journalist can't be much of a
          payday.

                     LOGAN
          Fortunately, my needs are met in that
          department.

                     MAX
          So, what, you just like the sound of your
          own voice?

                     LOGAN
          Look around at all this...
               (gesturing at the city around
                them)
          Built by people who got up every morning
          and worked hard trying to make a better
          life.  Then the bomb happened and
          everyone got scared.  They blinked and
          before they knew it they'd given away the
          store to a bunch of thugs who were happy
          to take it off their hands.  Overnight
          the government, the police, everything
          intended to protect the people had been
          turned against them.

                     MAX
          You miss the good ol' days.  Even though
          there were still poor people who died
          from diseases when they didn't have to.
          And rich people spent obscene amounts of
          money redecorating their houses to match
          the cat.  Those good ol' days?

                     LOGAN
          People had a choice, even if they took it
          for granted.  And now they don't.

                     MAX
          So what are you gonna do about it?

                     LOGAN
          Something.

                     MAX
          Personally, I'm more interested in going
          fast on my motorcycle or climbing the
          Trans American building with my pals.
          Instead of giving myself a headache over
          stuff I can't do anything about.

                     LOGAN
          You accept the way things are, you're an
          active participant in making it worse.

                     MAX
          Is the social studies class over for
          today?

                     LOGAN
          Yeah...

They walk in silence for a beat, then--

                     LOGAN
          That was a pretty extraordinary display
          of athleticism the other night.  In fact,
          a little too extraordinary.  You wanna
          tell me how--

But he looks up at her and she's gone.  As the CAMERA pulls
back, Logan is all alone on an empty street, looking for Max,
who seems to have vanished into thin air.

                                                    FADE OUT.

                       END OF ACT III



                           ACT IV

FADE IN:

INT.  JAM PONY X-PRESS - DAY (DAY 3)

Morning.  Messengers drink coffee and eat donuts as they wait
for their assignments.  Max, at her locker, confers with
Sketchy--

                     SKETCHY
          So you're straight on how this is gonna
          go down.

                     MAX
          You set up on Lydia.  When she's on her
          way over to the apartment you give me the
          heads up.  I answer the door and pretend
          to be Natalie.

                     SKETCHY
          She tells you how I've been--

                     MAX
          --a philandering pig.

                     SKETCHY
          But you explain that you're a
          compassionate and understanding person
          who can find it in your heart to forgive
          me.

                     MAX
          Or, I dissolve into an angry, hysterical
          wreck who never wants to see your lying
          ass again, which is probably what would
          really happen.

                     SKETCHY
          I just don't want Natalie to ever find
          out.  She deserves better.

                     MAX
          How'd you get her out of town?

                     SKETCHY
          Convinced her she needed to visit her mom
          in San Mateo.

                     MAX
          And we're sure Lydia's gonna make her
          move?

                     SKETCHY
          She came by the apartment once already.
          Fortunately, I'd disconnected the
          doorbell as a precaution... Lydia's not
          gonna back off until she gets her pound
          of flesh.

                     MAX
          I'll give it my best shot.

                     SKETCHY
          Max, what did I do to deserve a friend
          like you?

                     MAX
          You don't.

She gets up and heads out, passing Normal, who shoves a
package at her.

                     NORMAL
          Fourteen-thirteen Market.  Get a
          signature, then take it to this
          address... By the way, that guy who was
          in here sniffing after you yesterday
          called twice already.

                     MAX
          Tell him I took the day off 'cause I
          wasn't feeling so hot.

She walks away.

                     NORMAL
               (re: the package)
          What about this?

                     MAX
          I'm taking the rest of the day off 'cause
          I'm not feeling so hot.

Off Normal's exasperation--

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  STREET - DAY

Lydia mounts the steps, rings the doorbell.

                     MAX (O.C.)
          Who is it?

                     LYDIA
          A friend of your fiance's.

                     MAX (O.C.)
          What do you want?

                     LYDIA
          To set the record straight about where he
          was the other night when he said he was
          working late.

After a long silence she's buzzed in.  As Lydia enters--

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

As Max opens the door, we see that her hair is pulled back in
a bow.  Her leather jacket, jeans and boots have given way to
one of Natalie's floral print dresses.  Lydia enters, looks
around at the modest surroundings, smirks--

                     MAX
          Who are you?

                     LYDIA
          My name's Lydia.  And it seems you and I
          have a lot in common.

                     MAX
          You said you knew where my fiance was the
          other night.

                     LYDIA
          With me, where he's been after work,
          three, sometimes four nights a week for
          the last two months... We have what you
          might call an intimate relationship.

                     MAX
          How do I know you're telling the truth?

                     LYDIA
          He been sleeping in a T-shirt lately?
               (off Max's reaction which
                confirms this)
          That's so you won't see the fingernail
          marks on his back.
               (flashes a set of long, red
                nails)
          Bet you didn't know your boyfriend finds
          a little pain exciting.  He didn't
          either...at first.

                     MAX
          Look, I don't know what you want--

                     LYDIA
          I thought it was important for you to
          know the facts.

                     MAX
          And so should you.  Sketchy told me I
          could expect a visit from you.  I know
          all about how you threatened him.  That
          if he didn't break it off with me, you'd
          save him the trouble.

                     LYDIA
          Oh?

                     MAX
          Well, it's over between you and him.
          We're getting married next month.

                     LYDIA
          How sweet.  Standing by your man, even
          after what he did.  You're a very
          understanding person.

                     MAX
          Big part of loving someone's being able
          to forgive them.

                     LYDIA
          You're also a fool.

                     MAX
          I think you should go now.

                     LYDIA
          Not before we get something straight you
          prissy little bitch.  I decide when I'm
          done with your boyfriend.  Not him, and
          certainly not you.  Unless maybe you want
          to find out just how sharp these nails
          really are.

She goes for Max's face with a handful of flaming red
fingernails.  But Max catches her hand.

                     MAX
          This is not a place you wanna go.

                     LYDIA
          Let go of my hand.

Max does.  Lydia composes herself a beat, then takes a swing
at Max, who easily steps aside, then catches Lydia by the arm
and flips her onto her back on the floor.

                     MAX
          I'm working very hard to respect my
          elders here but don't push your luck.

Lydia gets up, grabs a floor lamp and, in SLO-MO, swings it
like a truncheon at Max, who easily ducks it at normal speed.
Max, fed up now, is on her in an instant.

Still in SLO-MO, Lydia's expression registers horror as Max
collars her, then back to normal speed, drags her to the
window and hangs her upside down by the ankles three stories
above the pavement below.

                     LYDIA
          Help... Lemme go... No, don't let me
          go... Help...

                     MAX
          Now, here's how it's gonna be, Lydia.
          You're gonna take your threats and your
          acrylic nails, and you're gonna go home
          and figure out your marriage, instead of
          trying to make other people feel as
          miserable as you do, understand?

                     LYDIA
          Okay, okay.

Max lets go with one hand, holding the woman's full weight
with the other.  Lydia screams.

                     MAX
          Say the words, "I understand."

                     LYDIA
          I understand.

                     MAX
          And if I ever catch you coming near my
          man again...

Off Lydia, upside down, her skirt around her shoulders--

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  SKETCHY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Twenty minutes later.  Present are Max and a triumphant
Sketchy.

                     SKETCHY
          You rock, Max.
               (jabbing a finger at her)
          You... Rock...

                     MAX
          Easy Sketchy.

                     SKETCHY
          No, I'm serious.  That psycho got exactly
          what she deserved... Yes.

                     MAX
          Lydia may not have been one of humanity's
          finer specimens but--

                     SKETCHY
          She's toxic...monster in bed, but toxic.

                     MAX
               (continuing her thought)
          You would be making a mistake to come
          away from this thinking she's the villain
          in the piece... You are.

                     SKETCHY
          She was the one--

                     MAX
          None of this would've happened if you had
          exercised even a smidgen of good
          judgement or self-restraint, which you
          didn't.

                     SKETCHY
          True, but--

                     MAX
               (cuts him off)
          You were trying to have it both ways and
          you were being completely selfish.  And
          if I ever find out you're going out the
          back door on Natalie again, you're the
          one who's gonna be hanging by your ankles
          three stories up.  Understand?

                     SKETCHY
          Okay, okay, okay--

                     MAX
          Say the words, "I understand."

A beat, then--

                     SKETCHY
          I understand.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  VOGELSANG'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Vogelsang sits at his computer, a half-empty glass of booze
next to the keyboard.  The phone rings, he answers.

                     VOGELSANG
          Yeah... Who's this? ...Oh, hey Phyllis,
          didn't recognize your voice... What's
          up? ...The usual, doing some work for a
          client.  Thinks one of his bartender's
          got his hand in the till.  Kid works
          three days a week for tips, just dropped
          forty large on a new ride... Tonight?
          ...I really can't... Of course I want to
          see you but--

From the sudden change in his demeanor we can only imagine
the word picture Phyllis is painting.  Then, serious now--

                     VOGELSANG
          What are you wearing? ...The red one?
          ...See you in a few.

Vogelsang hangs up, finishes off the glass, clicks off his
computer, grabs his briefcase and heads into--

INT.  LAUNDROMAT - NIGHT

Deserted.  Vogelsang heads for the front door.  He taps the
washing machine lids shut, one by one as he goes.  He hits
the lights and heads out the door, locking it as he addresses
a kid just arriving with a basket of laundry.

                     VOGELSANG
          We're closed.  Sorry.

Vogelsang locks the door and goes.

ANGLE ON a row of oversized industrial dryers.  After a beat,
the door of one of them is kicked open.  Then, in the
darkness we watch as a human form, clad all in black, climbs
out of his hiding place, then goes to another dryer, opens it
and takes out a black bag of gear and heads for Vogelsang's
office.

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

Vogelsang arrives at his car, a 20-year-old beater with an
alcohol tank retrofitted on the hood.  He pats himself down
looking for the car keys, mutters a curse, then heads back
toward the laundromat.

INT.  VOGELSANG'S OFFICE - NIGHT

As the intruder rifles drawers, etc.  He hears something,
freezes.

INT.  LAUNDROMAT - NIGHT

Vogelsang unlocks the door, enters and pads toward his
office, banging into the now open door of the industrial
dryer.

                     VOGELSANG
               (under his breath)
          Damnit...

He continues into--

INT.  VOGELSANG'S OFFICE - NIGHT

He reaches for the light switch but is jumped from behind by
the intruder, who takes him out with a couple of quick chops.
Vogelsang hits the ground hard.  The intruder rifles his
pockets, empties his wallet, then grabs his bag of gear and
splits.  Off Vogelsang, out cold as the sound of footsteps
recedes in the b.g.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  MAX'S CRIB - NIGHT

Max enters, calls--

                     MAX
          Kendra... Anybody home?

But no one is.  Max peels off her leather jacket, drops it on
the floor.  She kicks off one boot, then the other, then
peels off her black turtleneck revealing a tank top
underneath, dives onto her futon and sighs.  Not out of
fatigue, more like the weight of the world weighing on her
tonight.  She lies there a beat, then senses something.  Call
it a vibration, intuition.  She sits up suddenly and is very
still, like a deer in the forest listening for a predator's
approach, then she turns and looks behind her and sees--

THE GOLD STATUE

on the milk crate bookshelf against the wall.

Max gets up, crosses to the statue, picks it up and look at
it a long moment trying to run the math.  then, impetuously
she heads out of the room collecting her just doffed clothes
as she goes.

                                                    FADE OUT.

                        END OF ACT IV



                            ACT V

FADE IN:

INT.  LOGAN'S APARTMENT - FOYER - NIGHT (DAY THREE)

The luxurious apartment, subdued lighting.  A beat, then--
THWUMP!

MAX DROPS INTO FRAME

landing in a crouch.  She sees--

INT.  DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Logan, standing in the dining room, just lighting a candle at
the long table.  There are two place settings.  He looks at
her, then blows out the match.

                     LOGAN
          Ever notice how cats always seem to turn
          up around dinner time?

                     MAX
               (icy)
          I won't be staying.

                     LOGAN
          I'm not a half bad cook.

The tastefully arrayed table suggests this is an
understatement.

                     MAX
          Like following me around and pestering
          the people I work with wasn't bad enough,
          but breaking into my apartment--

                     LOGAN
          It was open.

                     MAX
          You got a lotta nerve.

                     LOGAN
          Me?  You're the one who tried to rip off
          this piece.

                     MAX
          Completely different situation.  I steal
          things in order to sell them.  For money.
          It's called commerce.  But some stranger
          sneaking into a girl's bedroom is...bent.

                     LOGAN
          Bent?

                     MAX
          Bent.

                     LOGAN
          You make it sound I pawed through your
          priceless collection of underwear.

                     MAX
          How do I know you didn't?

                     LOGAN
          So saw my hands off, I left you a
          present.

                     MAX
          Am I s'posed to be grateful?

                     LOGAN
          That would be appropriate, yes.

                     MAX
          How'm I s'posed to ever sleep there again
          knowing some pervo's probably touched
          everything I own?

                     LOGAN
          You're that nervous, you're welcome
          to stay here.

Max feigns complete revulsion at the thought as Peter the
security guard enters in a rush, drawing his gun menacingly,
some ace wrapping on his wrist and a bandage on the bridge of
his nose.

                     MAX
          Whoa there, Tex!  We've been through
          all this.

                     LOGAN
          It's alright, Peter, we're fine.

                     MAX
          We are not fine.

Peter lowers the gun but continues to watch Max suspiciously.

                     PETER
          This is a tactical exposure which I go on
          record as not liking.

                     LOGAN
          Noted... Peter, do me a favor and look
          in on Lauren and Sophy.

Peter grudgingly exits and Max causally circles the table.
She idly kicks the plywood which has been fastened over the
window she broke last time she was here.

                     LOGAN
          Look, if I made you nervous or
          uncomfortable or creeped you out--

                     MAX
          Yes on all counts.

                     LOGAN
          I'm sorry.  It wasn't my intention.  But
          I had to see you.

                     MAX
          You'd think a guy who's taken on the job
          of saving the world would have a few more
          important things to do than traipse
          around after some girl.

                     LOGAN
          I haven't been able to get you off my
          mind.

                     MAX
          You need to get out more.

                     LOGAN
          C'mere, I want to show you something.

Putting a hand on each shoulder, he steers her over to an
ornate mirror hanging above the sideboard.

                     MAX
          Gold leaf, art nouveau, French, early
          nineteen hundreds... I could probably
          fence this for three or four grand.

                     LOGAN
          No, I meant this.

He points to her reflection in the mirror.

                     LOGAN
          Probably the most singularly beautiful
          face I've ever seen.

Max is caught off guard, even a little embarrassed.

                     MAX
          Expensive gifts, surprise late-night
          visits, over-the-top flattery... You
          always come on this strong?

                     LOGAN
          Only when I meet someone I have to know
          everything about.

He brushes the air off the nape of her neck and leans in.
Max doesn't resist.

                     MAX
          What are you doing?

Logan sees the bar code on her neck.

                     LOGAN
          And now I think I know pretty much
          everything.

He abruptly pulls away, leaving Max standing there confused
by the interruption.

                     LOGAN
          Suppose I could help you locate the other
          ones.

                     MAX
          The other ones?

                     LOGAN
          The other one like you...

                     MAX
               (blankly)
          You lost me.

                     LOGAN
          C'mon, Max.  First I watch you dive
          headfirst out the window fifteen stories
          up like you're Rocky the flying squirrel.
          Then, I found this in your apartment.

He pulls a vial of pills out of his pocket.  Max registers
outrage.

                     LOGAN
          L-Triptophane...a neurotransmitter
          sometimes used in homeopathy to control
          seizures.  Then the lightbulb went off.

                     MAX
          You did go through my stuff.

As Logan turns and heads into--

INT.  STUDY - NIGHT

Max follows as Logan begins typing information on the
computer keyboard.

                     LOGAN
          I got an anonymous report a couple years
          ago from a guy who says he was a lab tech
          at a covert genetics lab in the Wyoming
          mountains...

A file labeled MANTICORE fills the computer screen.

                     MAX
          I don't know what kind of game you're
          playing here but I'm out because you are
          a whack-job.

                     LOGAN
          He was working on something called
          Project Manticore, which was using
          recombinant DNA to produce a superior
          human...a warrior...an advanced infantry
          soldier.

                     MAX
          Not that I don't enjoy a good urban
          legend now and then but what does any of
          this have to do with me?

                     LOGAN
          The bar code on your neck, Max.  I know
          who you are and I know who you're running
          from.

The revelation freezes Max in her tracks.  After a beat, she
suddenly bolts but Logan catches her, looks into her face.

                     LOGAN
          There were a couple of dozen of these
          transgenic kids.  And in oh-nine, a few
          months before the pulse, six of them
          escaped.

The struggle goes out of her when she hears this.

                     MAX
          Six?

The emotion is plainly evident in her eyes.

                     LOGAN
          You're one of those kids, Max.

Off which--

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Lauren sits on the bed reading "Goodnight Moon" to Sophy.

                     LAUREN
          Goodnight Bears.  Goodnight chairs.
          Goodnight kittens.  Goodnight mittens.
          Goodnight clocks.  And goodnight socks.
          Goodnight little house.  And goodnight--

                     SOPHY
          I don't want to move away.

                     LAUREN
          I know, Honey, but just think how
          exiting it will be-- new house, new
          school, new friends--

                     SOPHY
          But why can't we stay here?

                     LAUREN
          Because we can't.  There's nothing here
          for us anymore.

                     SOPHY
          Are we in some kind of trouble?

                     LAUREN
          No...

                     SOPHY
          Then how come last night I heard you
          talking to Logan and you were crying?

A beat, then--

                     LAUREN
          What makes you cry?

                     SOPHY
          If I'm sad, or tired, or sometimes when
          I'm angry or when somebody's being mean
          to me.

                     LAUREN
          Pretty much the same reasons I was
          crying.  But things will be better when
          we move to a new place.

                     SOPHY
          Then I'm gonna do what you do to make me
          feel better when I'm sad.

Sophy takes the book.

                     SOPHY
          I'm going to read you a story...
          And goodnight mouse.  Goodnight camel.
          And goodnight brush.  Goodnight nobody.
          And goodnight mush--

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Logan listens as Max relates the specifics of her history.

                     MAX
          We got separated right away.  I never
          knew how many made it.

                     LOGAN
          How well do you remember the lab?

                     MAX
          I remember fine.  I just didn't
          understand what was going on.  They never
          told us anything except what to do.  It
          took me a long time afterwards to figure
          things out.

                     LOGAN
          How much do you know?

                     MAX
          I know they made me.  Even got the label
          on my neck to prove it.

                     LOGAN
          The technical term for you is
          "chimera"...

                     MAX
          Yeah...a made-up creature.  Like in
          mythology...with the head of a lion, the
          body of a goat and the tail of...

                     LOGAN
          A girl.

                     MAX
          Your basic hodge-podge.

                     LOGAN
          Hardly...

Max acknowledges the compliment with a brief glance, then
looks out the window at the city lights.

                     MAX
          Christmas is a snap when you got no
          parents or relatives, just a bunch of
          gene sequences from probably twenty
          different people.

                     LOGAN
          Like extra virgin olive oil, the best of
          the best.

                     MAX
               (then, turning from the window)
          You said you could help.

                     LOGAN
          I need to find this technician, or anyone
          else who knows about Project Manticore.
          They would've used surrogate mothers to
          carry you after the in-vitro work... If
          I can track down one of them.

                     MAX
          What's in it for you?

                     LOGAN
          Your help.

                     MAX
          I already don't like the sound of this.

                     LOGAN
          The woman you met, Lauren.  She
          supervised workers removing
          cortodiazapine from gel caps by hand and
          replacing it with powdered sugar.  The
          real drug was shipped out of the country.
          The placebos were distributed to County
          VA Hospital and six veterans' clinics in
          the area.

                     MAX
          That's low, but this effects me how
          exactly?

                     LOGAN
          She's prepared to testify that she was
          instructed to do this by one of Edgar
          Sonrisa's managers.  You know who Sonrisa
          is?

                     MAX
          Yeah, I catch your hacks.  He's Satan's
          lap dog, or something.

                     LOGAN
          So, you know the lengths he'll go to keep
          her from going public... I'm turning
          Lauren over to Canadian law enforcement
          tomorrow.  They'll put her in witness
          protection, but if you're with her the
          risk of her safety goes way down.

                     MAX
          I didn't make it this far by attracting a
          lot of attention.

                     LOGAN
          She's put her life on the line, and her
          faith in me.

                     MAX
          They want me...bad.  Or at least they
          don't want me grabbed up by the Chinese
          or whoever.  Best case, I wind up back in
          that facility.  More likely, it's a long
          drive out in the country, if you know
          what I mean.

Logan sees the fear in her eyes.  A flash of the scared six-
year-old through the stony poise of the woman.

                     MAX
          They've lost track of me and I plan to
          keep it that way.

                     LOGAN
          You're a soldier, Max.  That's what you
          were put here for.  But soldiers need a
          mission otherwise they tear themselves
          up.

                     MAX
          That's deep.  But before you lecture me
          about the meaning of life maybe you
          oughta get one...ta ta.

Then, she leaps up and grabs the combing of the skylight.
She pikes sharply, like a gymnast, and pulls herself up
through the opening.  And, just like that, she's gone.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  SIDEWALK NEWSSTAND - NIGHT

Max picks up a newspaper, looks around, tucks the gold statue
in it, hand it to the proprietor, INGA MARCHAND, 28, tough,
cool, sexy, despite her prosthetic leg.  Inga takes the
newspaper, checks out the statue, her eyes widen.

                     INGA
          Where'd you clip this?

                     MAX
          I didn't.  It was a present from a guy.

                     INGA
          Must think you're pretty special laying
          this on you.

                     MAX
          Thought so.  Turned out he wanted me for
          something else though.

                     INGA
          Same old story.
               (then hands back the statue)
          Not interested.

                     MAX
               (shrugs)
          Thought I'd let you have first crack...
          Later.

She stands to go but Inga stops her.  We get the sense this
is all part of the dance, then--

                     INGA
          What're you looking for?

                     MAX
          A grand.

                     INGA
          Which means I gotta fence it for two.
          Who's got that kinda scrilla lying
          around, these being the worst of the
          times.

                     MAX
               (shrugs)
          I ain't mad at you...

                     INGA
          I'll give you seventy-five bucks for it.

                     MAX
               (nods, then)
          Later.

As she heads off, Inga relents, pulls out a wad.  This is as
practiced as a Japanese tea ceremony.

                     INGA
          I shouldn't do this.
               (as she counts out the money)
          But I got a client lookin' to score some
          fire power.  Maybe you'll keep your eyes
          open for me.

                     MAX
          I don't get involved with guns.

                     INGA
          I'll make it worth your while.

                     MAX
               (firm)
          It's a rule.

Inga hands the money to Max, reaches for the statue.  But
without counting the cash, Max yanks back the merchandise.

                     MAX
          You're light a deuce.

                     INGA
               (smiles)
          Am I?

Then she counts out two more bills.

                     INGA
          So Max, what do you do with all your
          money?

                     MAX
          I got overhead...

She goes.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  LAUNDROMAT - NIGHT

Max pulls up on her motorcycle.  A sign says CLOSED.  Max
dismounts, knocks on the door but it's open.  She ventures
in.

INT.  LAUNDROMAT - NIGHT

She transits the corridor into--

INT.  VOGELSANG'S OFFICE - NIGHT

The place is trashed.  Vogelsang sports a mouse under one
eye.

                     MAX
          What happened?

He looks up at Max, puts a finger to his swollen lip to
silence her, then by way of explanation scrawls on a pad as
he speaks--

                     VOGELSANG
          Walked in on some hump ransacking the
          place.  Disgruntled former client, or
          someone I'm looking into trying to see
          what I got.  Or it coulda been your
          garden variety junkie boost.  Who knows?

As he holds up the pad--

INSERT

ROOM BUGGED.

Max nods understanding.

                     MAX
          As long as you're okay.

                     VOGELSANG
          I'll live... Regarding your case...I'm
          afraid I've come up with some bad news on
          your fiance.  Lemme get the file.

He motions Max toward the back door--

                     VOGELSANG
          If you need to freshen up, bathroom's
          over there.

Max picks up the cue.

                     MAX
          Please.

As Vogelsang steers her outside into--

EXT.  ALLEY - NIGHT

Vogelsang's demeanor instantly changes.

                     VOGELSANG
          I don't know what your story is and I
          don't want to.

                     MAX
          Here's your money.

She hands it to him but he doesn't take it.

                     VOGELSANG
          Whoever tossed this place wants you.  And
          I'm looking to stay outta the line of
          fire.

                     MAX
          How's this about me?

                     VOGELSANG
          They lifted my wallet to make it look
          like a robbery.  But there's a bug in my
          computer keyboard, a tap on the phone and
          a mike in the light fixture.

                     MAX
          Like you said, maybe somebody's tracking
          one of your investigations.

                     VOGELSANG
          Hardware's too sophisticated.  It's gotta
          be the government.  And why do I think
          they're looking for you?

                     MAX
          You're crazy.

                     VOGELSANG
          I'm you, I take that money and get outta
          town while you can.

He heads back into--

INT.  LAUNDROMAT - NIGHT

Resuming his cover story.

                     VOGELSANG
          Your fiance has four previous wives.  His
          M.O. is to clean 'em out and take off.
               (sotto)
          Which is what you oughta do.

                     MAX
          Bastard...

It's unclear whether she's speaking in character or venting
on Vogelsang for bailing.

                     VOGELSANG
          I'm sorry I couldn't come up with
          something more positive.

                     MAX
          You and me both.

She goes.

EXT.  LAUNDROMAT - NIGHT

As Max gets on her motorcycle and heads off, she puts her
collar up, pulls her hat down, glancing at the two men in a
parked car who watch her closely as she passes.  As one of
the men raises a camera and clicks off several frames, Max
looks away and we--

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  MAX'S BUILDING - NIGHT

Max emerges from the stairwell into the darkened corridor.
Omar runs toward her waving a flashlight, making the sounds
of gunfire and explosions as he wages a five-year-old's war--

                     OMAR
          Blam-Blam-Blam, you're dead.

As Max tries to wrest the flashlight out of his hands,
annoyed--

                     MAX
          Turn that off, Omar, before you get the
          cops on us.

Jacinda emerges from her apartment, calls in monotone--

                     JACINDA
          Come on, Omar, it's time to go to sleep.

She scoops up the child, turning off the flashlight but not
before the beam illuminates her face.  Her eyes are red, her
cheeks tear-streaked.

                     MAX
          Are you okay?

Jacinda just nods.  Omar wriggles out of her arms, runs into
the apartment shooting at an imagined adversary.

                     MAX
          What's wrong?

A beat, then--

                     JACINDA
          I took Theo to the hospital tonight...
          He couldn't walk so I borrowed some money
          and we took a cab but...

Her chest begins to heave and she breaks down in sobs.

                     JACINDA
          ...he didn't make it... He's dead.  Oh
          my God... Oh my God...

Max goes to her and takes her in her arms.  Off Max,
comforting the stricken women.

                                                    FADE OUT.

                        END OF ACT V



                           ACT VI

FADE IN:

INT.  MAX'S CRIB - DAY (DAY FOUR)

CLOSE ON MAX

grimacing, tortured by another seizure.

MONOCHROME FLASHBACK (GENEDYNE)

In the barracks, the kids surround Young Max, who is sprawled
on the floor convulsing.  They look up in fear as the door
bangs open and a group of guards and orderlies come in.  The
kids are ordered out of the way, but they don't want to give
Max up, not after what happened to the blonde-haired boy.

ON MAX

In the present, fumbling to open her pills.  She dumps out a
handful, scattering some.  She pounds them into her mouth.

FLASHBACK CONTINUES

as the kids are pulled out of the way, protesting.  The
orderlies, yelling, grab Max, but--

Zack pushes one of the orderlies and the guy flies back and
guards rush in with stun batons raised.

A girl springs on one from behind and, quick as a flash, she
yanks his gun out of it's holster and--

BLAM!  She puts a round into the ceiling, then pulls down on
the guards.  Screaming at them she waves the gun in an arc
and--

They fall back, leaving Eva crouched over Max with the gun.
The kids join ranks without hesitation...their eyes fierce.
The guards and orderlies fall back through the door and the
kids start to barricade it with steel bunk frames.

MAX, IN THE PRESENT

Convulses on the bathroom floor.  Her muscles are locked in a
tetanic rigor.  One fist shoots out and shatters the tank of
the toilet.  Ceramic shards and water pour over her.  She
pulls into a fetal position, shaking violently, as she rides
it out.  Her head raps against the flooded tile floor.

FLASHBACK

The kids, led by Zack are running through a service hall in
the lab complex.  Jondy and Eva are pulling a stumbling Max
along.

They round a corner and lights blast suddenly into their
eyes.  Eva releases Max, who falls to her knees.  Eva fires
rapidly at the lights.  BAM!  BAM!  BAM!  A figure steps into
the lights and fires back with one swift move.  Eva is
slammed backward and slides in a crumpled heap across the
floor.  The pistol skitters and comes to rest right in front
of Max.

The silhouette materializes out of the lights... Lydecker.

OUTSIDE THE LAB the windows explode outward as the kids crash
through the glass in a suicide charge, dropping twenty feet
to the know below.  They hit and roll, and come up sprinting.
Jondy pulls Max with her as they pelt for the treeline.

ON YOUNG MAX running.  She pounds through the snow, toward
CAMERA, until she is just a rhythmic blur and--

MAX, IN THE PRESENT hunches against the bathroom wall, her
tremors subsiding.  The shudders have been replaced by sobs.
Tears stream down her face as her chest pitches, and she
shudders with a pain of the soul the pills can't touch.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  JAM PONY - DAY

Max arrives for the day, crosses to dispatch, a sober
expression on her face, passing Sketchy who offers--

                     SKETCHY
          F.Y.I... Normal's a grumpy muffin this
          morning.

                     NORMAL
               (snarls to Max)
          Nice of you to join us.

Max doesn't respond.  He shoves a package at her.

                     NORMAL
          Hot run to 842 Beulah, corner of
          Haight... And you can tell your pal
          Theo he just got his worthless ass fired.
          Not that he cares but the wife and kid
          might.

                     MAX
               (simply)
          Theo's dead.

A revelation which freezes the room.  Normal just hangs
there, not knowing what to say.  Max takes the package out of
his hands, goes.  But her attention is diverted by a news
bulletin on TV.

ANGLE ON TV

                     NEWS ANCHOR
               (on monitor)
          Two men are dead, and another critically
          wounded after a shoot-out near the
          Superior Court Building today.  A police
          air-remote unit captured this dramatic
          footage at 9:47 this morning, after
          automatically homing on the sound of
          gunfire.

A monochromatic AERIAL SHOT of the downtown area.  It is a
feed from the police hoverdrone, and the image is overlaid
with some alphanumeric data like the targeting video from a
jet fighter weapons system.  The image slews suddenly in a
WHIP PAN as the robot reacts to the first shots fired.  It
stabilizes and zooms in on a dark Suburban which is ramming a
car and trying to force it to the curb.  A second Suburban
pulls out of an alley and blocks the car's path.  The car
skids to a stop.  It is all seen from almost directly
overhead, like a football play.

The doors of the Suburbans fly open and four gunmen pile out,
wearing ski-masks and carrying machine pistols.  They
converge on the car, firing.  The car's windows erupt with
white starbursts, the weapons smoke and flash, but no sound
accompanies the image.

Two bodyguards leap from the car, firing at the gunmen.  They
are wearing heavy kevlar vests, as are the attackers.  A back
door of the car opens and a man emerges, yanking a child out
onto the street.  He shields her with his body as he starts
to run.  The image jerks and slews as the aerial robot
circles the scene.

TIGHT ON MAX...as it dawns on her what she is seeing.

A woman has emerged from the back of the car, obviously
screaming and trying to reach the child.  One of the body
guards shoves her and appears to be yelling at her to run.
He is shot by one of the attackers and drops like a puppet
with the strings cut.  The woman turns and sprints for her
life.

The man trying to shield the little girl doesn't get far
before one of the gunmen runs up behind him and hoses him
with a machine pistol.  The man drops, covering the girl.

TIGHT CLOSE-UP OF MAX

reacting to this, and to the certain dread that she knows who
the victims of the attack are.

The remaining bodyguard is laying down a withering field of
fire, and one of the attackers falls.  Another is pinned down
behind the hood of the nearest Suburban.

The bodyguard is hit repeatedly and goes down shooting,
crumpling against the side of the car.

The SHOT WHIPS dizzily and steadies...showing one of the
masked killers, who seems to be in charge, calmly pointing
and yelling.  One of the others grabs the little girl and
they walk back to the Suburbans.  The one in charge helps
with wounded gunman into their vehicle.

WHIP PAN, a long blur, then the running woman again.  Dodging
between cars, almost getting hit by one.  She makes it to an
intersection and sprints to a bus stop where she leaps onto a
bus just as the doors are closing.  As the bus pulls away
from the curb, the gunman runs INTO FRAME and stops,
obviously out of breath.  He turns and waits calmly as one of
the Suburbans pulls up.  Before he gets in, he looks up,
directly at the CAMERA.  He points to the others to indicate
the surveillance robot, then raises his gun and aims
carefully.

A flash at the muzzle--

The image tilts crazily and starts to spin.

                     SKETCHY
          That was extreme!  Did you see that one
          guy--

                     MAX
          Shut-up...

Sketchy and Herbal look at Max, puzzled by her intensity.

The drivers license pictures of the two men appear on the
screen.  The one on the left is Peter, the bodyguard Max
tussled with at Logan's place.  The other man is Logan Cale.

INT.  AN OFFICE - DAY

Present are the two field operatives seen earlier posted
outside the laundromat, SANDOVAL and DOCHNOVICH, being
debriefed by a man seated behind a desk.  He's silhouetted
against white-hot slats of California sun fighting through
partially closed Venetian blinds.  From the black gloved hand
sorting through a stack of grainy 8 X 10 surveillance photos,
we know this is Lydecker.

                     SANDOVAL
          We been set up on Vogelsang thirty-six
          hours and so far, nothing.

                     DOCHNOVICH
          A few customer complaints-- the dryer ate
          my money, rinse cycle's not long enough,
          that kind of thing.

                     SANDOVAL
          And three or four P.I. clients.  Strictly
          run of the mill.  I don't think this guy
          can help us.

The black glove sifts through a pile of photographs taken at
Vogelsang's, holding the one of Max a moment before casting
it aside.  Then, Lydecker stands, paces--

                     LYDECKER
               (musing aloud)
          Twenty-three computer hits from one
          detective.  He browses Wyoming DMV
          records from ten years ago, employment
          files on health care personnel working in
          the Gillette area around the same time.
          Then he searches prison records for
          unidentified males and females
          approximately eighteen to twenty years
          old.  And you want me to believe it's
          happenstance?

                     DOCHNOVICH
          Since the pulse there've been how many
          thousand missing person searches.  This
          is probably one of them.

                     SANDOVAL
          And nothing in those searches or our
          surveillance connects him with Manticore.

Lydecker crosses to a wall displaying a row of I.D.
photographs of young kids with military haircuts.  We
recognize Zack, Jondy...and Young Max.  Lydecker studies the
photos a long moment, shakes his head.

                     LYDECKER
          No.  He's trying to track down these
          kids... And we're not going to do
          anything to get in his way.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  HOSPITAL SUPPLY ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE ON

A window, being jimmied from the outside.  It slowly slides
open, revealing Max hanging upsidedown.  She reaches in,
grasping the window casement with each hand to steady
herself, then gracefully somersaults into the room, landing
on both feet.  She goes to the door, opens it a crack, peers
out, then heads into--

INT.  HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Dimly lit, dingy, Moscow General, circa 1999.  Max makes her
way down the corridor, passing a couple of corpse-laden
gurneys waiting to be taken to the morgue whenever somebody
gets around to it.  She peers into a couple of hospital rooms
at patients being warehoused more than healed.  Finally, she
sees what she's looking for and heads into--

INT.  HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

She approached a bed where Logan lies unconscious, hooked up
to monitors, bandaged, I.V.'s running, etc.  Max just looks
at him a beat, a dispassionate expression on her face, then
without emotion--

                     MAX
          Sure looks like you pissed off the wrong
          folks.

She pulls open the drawer to the bedside table, takes out his
wallet, goes through it, but it's empty.

                     MAX
               (shrugs)
          Nurses beat me to it.

She flops into a chair, puts her feet up on the hospital bed,
then opines wisely--

                     MAX
          Coulda told ya.  You take a header into
          the deep end when the pool's empty,
          you're gonna go splat.  Law of gravity.
          And even Jesus Christ himself had to obey
          the law of gravity.  For awhile anyway.
          Well, better you than me.

She hears something out in the hall, gets to her feet, then
presses herself flat against the wall.  Through the doorway
we see an ORDERLY approach carrying a tray of meds.  He slows
as he passes Logan's room, casting a long look at Logan's
comatose form, then continues on.  After a moment, Max
continues--

                     MAX
          The one I feel sorry for is that poor
          woman with the kid.  She shoulda told ya
          to stick it like I did.  But she bought
          your crap about "doin' what's right"...
          dumb bitch.

As Max crosses to the window, lifts a slat of the Venetian
blinds and peers out into the night--

                     MAX
          And just so you know, I don't feel the
          slightest guilt about not watchin' her
          back.  That's on you, hotshot.  One
          hundred percent.

MAX'S POV

In her NIGHT VISION she sees a figure moving furtively on the
roof across the street.  She watches as the figure removes a
rifle from its case, then screws on a scope.  She can make
out the features of a not unattractive man in his late 20's.

Max turns away, then nonchalantly walks over to Logan's bed
and begins to maneuver it toward the door.

                     MAX
          I probably oughta let 'em just finish the
          job.  Least then you won't get more
          innocent people whacked on accounta your
          ambition... On the other hand--

As she wheels him out into--

INT.  HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

                     MAX
          You did lay that statue on me.

She yanks the toe-tag off one of the corpses and maneuvers
its gurney into Logan's room.

                     MAX
          Which I was able to fence for a coupla
          bucks--

INT.  HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Max wheels in the gurney, positions it where Logan's bed had
been, then quickly scoots back out into--

INT.  HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

                     MAX
          Been wantin' to buy myself a new
          motorcycle.

And ducks into a room across the hall just as a gunman steps
out of the stairwell, sprays Logan's room with machine gun
fire, then vanishes back into the stairwell.  After a beat,
Max re-emerges into the hall.  Then, addressing Logan--

                     MAX
          Thinking about stepping up to a Harley...
          You take care.

As Max heads for the exit past our orderly, who comes running
at the sound of all the commotion--

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  LOGAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Dark.  Empty.  Then a SOUND as Max navigates through the
darkness to Logan's computer console-- command central for
his information network.

Max takes a seat, logs on, accessing Logan's myriad data
files.

S-O-N-R-I-S-A, E-D-G-A-R

A file comes up on screen.  Max clicks on--

EMPLOYEES/ASSOCIATES

and begins scrolling through the file of mug shots of
Sonrisa's enforcers, lieutenants, etc.-- a generally
loathsome crew--

                     MAX
          Makes me wanna take a shower.

Then--

                     MAX
          Bingo...

ON SCREEN

is the face of the shooter, cold, merciless.

Max looks up at a sound coming from down the hall.  She
listens a moment, then after a beat she pushes away from the
console and goes to investigate.  Hearing the creak of a
floorboard, she snags a vase off the mantle, raises it like a
truncheon and continues into--

INT.  HALLWAY - NIGHT

Max negotiates the darkness, her back against the wall.
Suddenly, a figure lunges at her.  Max ducks, catches the
assailant by the throat, pinning him to the wall, about to
deliver a cranium crack with the vase when she recognizes
Lauren.

                     MAX
          Damn... Are you alright?

                     LAUREN
          They took my daughter.

                     MAX
          I know.

                     LAUREN
          I couldn't get to her.  It all happened
          so fast.  Logan had her, and I saw him
          fall...then Peter told me to run.  And
          then he...and I remember so clearly,
          thinking it's me they want.  If I run,
          maybe they'll come after me.  Maybe they
          won't think about her... So I ran...

Lauren dissolves in tears.  After a beat--

                     MAX
          They won't hurt her.

Lauren wants desperately to believe her but can't.  Max
presses reassurance.

                     MAX
          Your daughter's the only leverage they
          have to keep you quiet.

                     LAUREN
          Can you help me get her back?

                     MAX
          Look, I'd really like to...

Max can't muster the courage to venture a "but" as she looks
into the woman's imploring eyes.

                     MAX
          ...So I will.

Off which--

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  STUDY - NIGHT

Back at the computer console.  Max indicates to Lauren the
mug shot on the screen.

                     MAX
          The shooter who tried to finish off
          Logan... Works for Sonrisa, surprise,
          surprise.
               (reads)
          Bruno Anselmo.  Born 1990, served in
          Iraq, dishonorable discharge, armed
          robbery, assault, assault with a deadly
          weapon, arson, attempted rape-- your
          basic renaissance dirt bag.

But Lauren is too absorbed by worry to pay attention.

                     LAUREN
          If I give myself up in exchange for
          Sophy, would you make sure she's okay?

                     MAX
          We're not going that route.  Sonrisa's
          not someone you make deals with.

                     LAUREN
          What else can we do?

                     MAX
          Like I said-- This isn't my regular line
          of work so I'm making it up as I go.

Off Max--

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  SONRISA'S ESTATE - PACIFIC HEIGHTS - NIGHT

A limo pulls up to the gate of an extravagant, faded
Victorian manor.  The window goes down and the STEROID CASE
standing guard addresses the DRIVER.

                     DRIVER
          Mayor Steckler to see Mister Sonrisa.

The guard shines a flashlight into the limousine, looks
inside warily at MAYOR LEOPOLD STECKLER, who squints into the
blinding beam of light.  After a beat--

                     STEROID CASE
          I'll need to search the trunk.

The driver pops the latch and the Steroid Case moves to the
rear of the car.

In b.g. a bus rumbles past.  PICK UP and STAY WITH the bus
as Max, atop the vehicle, comes into view as she gets to her
feet.  The bus continues down the block and Max somersaults
from the roof of the bus over the ten foot wall surrounding
Sonrisa's estate onto--

INT.  GROUNDS - NIGHT

Where Max lands and rolls onto her feet in a low crouch.

Security is tight as assorted armed personnel patrol the
perimeter of the faded Victorian palazzo, where a party is
underway.  Max makes her way across the grounds but freezes
as a mobile robotic security drone rolls across the grass
towards her, sweeping the area with laser beams to detect
intruders, much as a lighthouse scours the seascape with its
beacon.  Max dives to the ground just as the laser rakes
where she had been standing.  She rolls out of the way as
another beam sweeps the ground.

She bolts toward the house, leaps and grabs a tree limb,
swinging herself upward like an acrobat, barely clearing
another beam.  Max scales the tree, then jumps onto a balcony
and disappears into an open window.

INT.  MANSION HALLWAY - NIGHT

As Max climbs into an upstairs hallway, makes her way to a
bedroom, pokes her head in, sees it's empty, then continues
down the hall.  In b.g. HEAR the sounds of the party
downstairs.  Max stops at the sound of voices and approaching
footsteps, then dives into--

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Where a bleached-BLONDE, late 20's, in a little red dress and
fuck-me pumps (a look which, like cockroaches and Cher has
survived the apocalypse) stands at the sink readying a
syringe.  Without looking up--

                     BLONDE
          It's not what it looks like.  I'm
          diabetic.

The blonde looks up, sees Max, who looks out of place in
boots, jeans, and black leather jacket.

                     BLONDE
          Who are you?

                     MAX
          Bruno's girlfriend.

                     BLONDE
          Oh, yeah?

                     MAX
          Yeah.

                     BLONDE
          But see tonight wives and girlfriends
          aren't invited.

                     MAX
          No?

                     BLONDE
          No... Cause tonight the girls are here
          in a more or less professional capacity.
          All of them work for me, and you don't...
          Let's go.

The blonde starts to move Max toward the door.

                     MAX
          Okay, okay.  I can explain... You ever
          have to do something you really don't
          want to?

                     BLONDE
          How I make my living, what's your point?

                     MAX
          This.

Max hauls off and catches the blonde across the jaw with a
roundhouse that lays her out cold.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  MANSION HALLWAY - NIGHT

Max emerges wearing the red dress, shoes, and the little
working girl purse slung over one shoulder.  Going room to
room, Max resumes her search for the missing girl.

INT.  SONRISA'S MANSION - NIGHT

Max heads down the staircase to the main floor where the
party is in full swing.  Young women mingle with Sonrisa's
cronies, yes-men, puppets, etc.  Max tries to look nonchalant
as she navigates the room.  She notices surveillance cameras
placed discreetly around the room.  As Max leans against the
bar for a moment, one of the other girls, a slightly drunk
REDHEAD, eyes her appraisingly, nodding approval.

                     REDHEAD
          Girl, you work that dress.

Max smiles and then edges toward the other wing of the house
in order to resume her search.  As she approaches the
corridor, a hand catches her by the arm.

                     VOICE (O.C.)
          Don't rush off.

The hand belongs to the hitman, BRUNO ANSELMO.

                     BRUNO
          Mr. Sonrisa saw you on the cameras.  He
          wants you to come see him.

                     MAX
          I'm on a break.

                     BRUNO
          Guess again.

As Bruno catches her by the elbow and steers her upstairs.

                                                    FADE OUT.

                        END OF ACT VI



                           ACT VII

FADE IN:

INT.  MANSION STUDY - NIGHT (DAY FOUR)

Max is ushered in as a poker game between EDGAR SONRISA and
two other men is ending.  A couple of escorts sit with
Sonrisa's buddies, one of whom is the mayor, but he is alone.
Behind him is an array of surveillance monitors, with views
of the house and grounds.  Sonrisa fans his hand on the
table.

                     SONRISA
          The only thing better than four queens
          is...
               (off Max's entrance)
          ...five.  Over here next to me...for luck.

Max saunters over, and all eyes are on her.

                     MAX
          Yeah, I can see to it your winning streak
          continues.

                     SONRISA
          I'll bet you can.
               (indicates chair next to him)
          Sit.

She doesn't.

                     MAX
          Not right now.

                     SONRISA
               (amused, intrigued)
          Not right now?  Okay, when?

                     MAX
          Right after you change your wardrobe,
          your personality and drop about thirty
          pounds.

                     SONRISA
          Quite a mouth on a girl so young...
               (grabs her wrist)
          ...but my guess is talking is not what it
          does best.

                     MAX
          Only way you're ever gonna find out is
          reincarnation... Fact is, you are gonna
          pay me, and I am gonna provide you with a
          service.

                     SONRISA
          I actually know how this works.

                     MAX
          You're gonna pay me fifty thousand
          dollars...

Sonrisa laughs hugely at the joke.

                     MAX
          And I'm gonna give you Lauren Braganza.

Sonrisa stops in mid-laugh.  His eyes go flinty.

                     SONRISA
               (to others)
          Give us a minute.
               (escorts and poker players
                hesitate)
          OUT!

They leave, except Bruno.  When the door closes, he pulls his
pistol and trains it on her.

                     SONRISA
          Check her.

Bruno slams her in the middle of the back and Max's hands
slap, palms-down on the table.  He holds the gun on her, then
slides his free hand down her body, his fingers kneading the
sheer dress, searching.

CLOSE-UP OF MAX as Bruno searches her out of frame.  Max
seems utterly unperturbed by what is obviously an intimate
search.

                     SONRISA
          Who are you?

                     MAX
          What, you gonna put me on your Christmas
          card list?

Bruno searches her purse, pulls out the syringe, holds it up
for his boss to see.

                     SONRISA
               (shrugs)
          Why I always use condoms.

Bruno puts the works back in her purse.

                     BRUNO
          No wire.

                     MAX
          Now that that's out of the way... You
          want the woman, here's how it works.  You
          pull fifty large out of your mattress or
          wherever, and I make a call to bring her
          in.

Bruno grabs her brutally by the hair, yanking her head back.

                     BRUNO
          Or we can work on your face with a pair
          of pliers for a couple of hours and you
          tell us where she is.

                     MAX
          Or we could go another way 'cause your
          boss seems to like my face just the way
          it is.

Sonrisa is fascinated now by this impudent creature.  He nods
to Bruno who releases her.

                     MAX
          The plan is I call her cell number to
          okay a meet at a certain location.

Sonrisa considers this a moment.

                     MAX
          Look, you're a player... I'm bringing you
          this on a plate, and my fee is just the
          normal cost of doing business.

                     SONRISA
               (to Bruno)
          Pull the cash.

                     BRUNO
          I don't like this--

                     SONRISA
          Get it.

Bruno crosses the room to a floor safe behind the bar.

                     SONRISA
          So, how do you get the woman to come
          to me?

                     MAX
          I told her it's just business to you,
          that all you want is a reasonable
          solution to this.  You give her daughter
          back, she agrees to leave the country.  I
          play the guarantor, drive her down to
          Mexico tonight, and put her on a train to
          Brazil or wherever.

                     SONRISA
          And she bought that?

                     MAX
          I have sincere eyes.

Bruno comes back with a handful of ten thousand dollar
packets of hundreds.

                     SONRISA
          Make the call.

                     MAX
          She's gonna need to know that her little
          girl's alright.

                     SONRISA
          She's got my word.

                     MAX
          She's gonna want to hear for herself.

Max hits the button on the speaker phone on Sonrisa's desk
and we HEAR a dial tone.

                     MAX
               (dials)
          Look, we gotta keep the momentum up here,
          not give her a chance to think.  If she
          hears her kid's voice...

                     LAUREN (V.O.)
          Hello...

                     MAX
          Hang on, Lauren.  We're conferencing in
          Sophy.

Max gestures toward the box that it's his move.  Sonrisa
considers for a second, then goes to the phone, presses the
conference button.  We HEAR another dial tone as Sonrisa hits
a speed dial button.

CLOSE ON MAX

her back to the phone, concentrating as she memorizes the
rapid-fire series of beep tones.  5-7-5-0-8-1-8-3-2-0-3-4-6-
1, then--

                     MAN'S VOICE (V.O.)
          Yeah?

                     SONRISA
          Put the kid on.

As Sonrisa hits the conference button, connecting calls--

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

It's one of Sonrisa's men, his arm bandaged after sustaining
a gunshot wound during the attack.  Also present are five
more of Sonrisa's men who've gone to the mattresses in the
wake of the gun battle.  The man proffers the phone to Sophy,
who hesitantly takes it, then--

                     SOPHY
          Hello...

INTERCUT

INT.  LOGAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Lauren paces, overwrought, talking on a cell phone.

                     LAUREN
          Sophy?  Are you okay?

                     SOPHY
          Mommy, where are you?

                     LAUREN
          Don't worry, I'm coming to get you.

                     SOPHY
          When?

                     LAUREN
          Soon, baby.

                     SOPHY
          Mommy, I'm scared.

                     LAUREN
          There's nothing to be afraid of.
          Everything's going to be alright.

INT.  SONRISA'S OFFICE - NIGHT

As Sonrisa reaches over and taps the disconnect button--

                     LAUREN (V.O.)
          I love y--

DIAL TONE.  Sonrisa takes the money from Bruno and puts it in
front of Max, but he rests his hands on top of it.

                     MAX
               (indicating the money)
          Can you put that in a bag or something?

                     SONRISA
          You get it when I get her.

                     MAX
          Okay...idea.  Compromise, right?  Bruno
          here comes with me.  He holds the money
          until mommy shows up, then we close
          escrow.  What you do with her after I'm
          gone doesn't keep me awake nights.

Sonrisa considers this a moment, then puts the money in a
manila envelope, tosses it to Bruno.

                     SONRISA
               (to Max)
          You better hope you're as smart as you
          think you are.

Max just smiles and steers her pumps toward the door, Bruno
in tow.  Only as she is walking out do we see what they
don't... Max breathes a huge sigh of relief that the play
worked and she's made it this far.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  MOTEL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

A car pulls in, Bruno at the wheel.  He surveys what clearly
is a hot bunk house.

                     BRUNO
          Look, that thing about the pliers, I was
          just doing what the man pays me to do.
          Ya know?  Comin' off hard.

                     MAX
          Yeah, sure, I understand.

Max bangs out of the car and heads toward the motel room,
fishing for the key.  Bruno draws the Sig from his waistband
as he follows her into the room.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Max turns on the light and Bruno scans the dingy room.
Pistol at low-ready, Bruno quickly crosses to the bathroom
and checks it, behind the door and shower curtain, and then
looks in the tiny closet.

                     BRUNO
          I never woulda done it.  Probably not,
          anyway.  I mean, I actually think you're
          pretty cool.

                     MAX
          Yeah?

Bruno sits on the bed.  He smiles.  Smooths the crummy
comforter with one hand.

                     BRUNO
          You're attractive, you're smart.  Stand
          on your own two feet, know what I mean?
          And you got a wicked sense of humor.
          Man, you really zinged the boss a couple
          times, it was all I could do--

                     MAX
               (brightly)
          Sooo...whattya think?  Maybe after I
          betray the woman who trusts me and you
          take her and her daughter out and execute
          them...we could go on a date.  Play a
          little miniature golf or somethin'.

Bruno's eyes narrow.  He gets it.

                     BRUNO
          Man, you got a bad attitude.

                     MAX
          I like to keep it professional, that's
          all.

Bruno starts screwing a big sound suppressor onto the barrel
of his Sig.

                     BRUNO
          Fine.  So call her.  Get her over here.

                     MAX
          Actually, that's not gonna be necessary.

                     BRUNO
          What?

                     MAX
          That's not why we're here.

                     BRUNO
          What the hell are you talkin' about?
          Call her.

He throws the room phone toward her forcefully.  Max catches
it, and rests it in her lap.

                     MAX
          Geez, you are so stupid the word special
          comes to mind.  They recruit you off the
          short bus?

Bruno raises the pistol, his body rigid with anger.

                     BRUNO
          Call the skank now or I start
          redecorating.

                     MAX
          You haven't figured this out yet, have
          you?  You walk in here thinking you're
          gonna cap her then cap me and take the
          money back to your boss with your tail
          wagging... But see it's really the other
          way around.  You think I'm the whack,
          when actually you're the whack.

Bruno glances around, feeling danger all around him.  This is
getting weird.

                     MAX
          See what you don't know is you're already
          in the last two minutes of your life.

                     BRUNO
          You're in the last two seconds, you don't
          cut the crap.

Keeping the gun trained on her, he crosses to the front
window and looks out between drape and window frame.  No
movement in the parking lot.  He flips off the light.

                     MAX
          Sonrisa had no choice but to call me in,
          'cause you lack the professional edge,
          Bruno.  Any real pro would've popped me
          already, the second he saw this thing
          going sideways, and you're still standing
          there figuring out what to do.  It's
          pathetic.

Bruno, enraged, straightens his arm to fire at her, but--

He goes into SLOW MOTION and--

Max is blurring sideways as the bullet rips a hole in the air
where she just was and--

Bruno, as if underwater, tries to re-aim, but--

Max is on him, twisting his arm until the gun is wrenched
free.

                     MAX
          See.  Pathetic.

She bitch-slaps him backhand, then hands the gun back to him.

                     MAX
          Come on, you're not even trying.

Bruno looks at her stunned for a second.  Then he whips the
gun up--

But he decelerates in SLOW MOTION as--

Max leaps past him and--

The silenced gun coughs PFFT!  PFFT!  PFFT! trying to track
her, but--

She lands behind Bruno and catches his gun arm as he spins
toward her, wrenching his arm behind his back and painfully
extracting the gun a second time.  She tosses it on the
floor.

Then she spins him away from her, stopping him at arm's
length...an unwilling dance partner.

                     MAX
          Bruno, Bruno, Bruno.  Is that all you've
          got?

She yanks hard, flinging him across the bed into the
nightstand.  He comes up like a gutshot bear, eyes full of
fury, and lunges at her--

Max drops him with one sweeping kick.

                     MAX
          The man was right, you are a liability.

Max pulls a lamp off the dresser and starts hog-tying him
with the cord.

                     MAX
          You can hardly blame him, the way you've
          been taking care of business...or should
          I say, not taking care of it.

                     BRUNO
               (face down in the carpet)
          What're you talkin' about?

                     MAX
          I'm hired to do a piece of work, my mark
          goes down and stays down.  Your's makes
          it to the hospital where you then gotta
          go finish the job.  Only the cops got the
          whole thing on video tape.

                     BRUNO
          That's a lotta crap.

                     MAX
          Security camera got you coming outta the
          stairwell, weapon in your hand, going to
          room one-oh-four and greasing the
          patient.  It's embarrassing to the
          professional community, is what it is.

                     BRUNO
          How come I never hearda you before?

                     MAX
          I'm outta Portland.  Sonrisa didn't want
          local talent.

She picks up the money off the bed and holds it in front of
his nose.

                     MAX
          This is what your life's worth, Bruno.

                     BRUNO
          But the boss knows I always been loyal.

                     MAX
          He's got exposure.  He sees you starin'
          at fifteen to life, there's a chance you
          could roll over, cop a plea, who knows?
          Man's figured the odds...and he can't
          take a chance.

Max reaches down, unbuckles his pants and pulls them down.

                     MAX
          Ass like your, I can see why he's
          worried you'll punk.

                     BRUNO
          What the hell are you doing?

                     MAX
               (re: tattoo on his ass)
          Who's Camille?

                     BRUNO
          None of your business.

                     MAX
          This won't hurt.  Triple dose of insulin,
          you'll go into a coma, couple minutes
          you'll stop breathing and on a busy
          night, the coroner will probably mistake
          it for an O.D.  Plus, it's way classier
          than blowin' your brains out.

Max turns away, retrieves the insulin and works from the
hooker's purse, then doses up the syringe.  She keeps one eye
in the mirror to watch Bruno, who is eyeing the gun lying
near him on the floor.

He wriggles free and makes his move as Max turns toward him.
Bruno comes up with the gun and Max feigns surprise, leaping
for the door.  Bruno staggers, falls, his pants around his
knees, hands tied.  He struggle back up, cranking off a round
as Max bolts out into--

EXT.  MOTEL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Max sprints across the parking lot, Bruno in pursuit, still
struggling with his trousers.  He squeezes off another round
which Max ducks as she heads for the motel swimming pool.
Max looks back as Bruno fires again.  Max spins, howls in
pain as if hit, and falls backward into the pool, her inert
form sinking in the black water.

Bruno walks up to confirm the kill.  Cinching up his pants,
he sits on the diving board, pistol loose in one hand as he
eyes Max's body at the bottom of the deep end.  He lights up
a cigarette, his hands shaking.  He takes a drag and sits.

                                                    FADE OUT.

                       END OF ACT VII



                          ACT VIII

FADE IN:

EXT.  MOTEL - NIGHT (DAY FOUR)

Bruno finishes his smoke, looking at Max's inert form at the
bottom of the pool as he works himself up, sputtering under
his breath.

                     BRUNO
          Double-crossing sonuvabitch thinks I'd
          roll on him... I'm gonna do a helluva
          lot more than that.

He angrily throws the cigarette into the water, then crosses
the parking lot to his car, gets in and drives off.

After a beat, Max surfaces.  Seeing the coast is clear, she
glides to the edge of the pool, pulls herself out and runs
back into--

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Max races in, frantically dials the phone.  After a beat--

                     MAX
          This is your punk-ass client...

                                                    INTERCUT:

INT.  VOGELSANG'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Vogelsang, his ear to the phone--

                     MAX (V.O.)
          I need a favor... I need you to trace a
          number for me.

                     VOGELSANG
          Sure you wanna be havin' this
          conversation over the phone?

                     MAX (V.O.)
          Just do it... Five-seven-five-oh-
          eight...

FLASHCUT

Max memorizing the beep tones in Sonrisa's office.

                     MAX (V.O.)
          ...one-eight-three-two-zero.

As Vogelsang taps the number into his computer.

                     VOGELSANG
          Whoa...whoa...slow down...three-two-what
          was it?

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  SURVEILLANCE VAN - NIGHT

Lydecker hovers over a technician monitoring the phone call.
He listens intently, his eyes flashing with excitement.

                     MAX (V.O.)
          Zero... C'mon, Dan I don't have all day.

                     VOGELSANG (V.O.)
          Got a pencil?

                     MAX (V.O.)
          Just give it to me.  I'll remember.

                     VOGELSANG (V.O.)
          One-seven-four-nine-five Natoma.

                     MAX (V.O.)
          I'm on my way.

As Lydecker flies into action.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  VOGELSANG'S OFFICE - NIGHT

                     VOGELSANG
          Your best bet's probably to take Fremont
          to the second light--

But the phone clicks in the P.I.'s ear as Max hangs up.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

As Max races out the door.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  ALLEY - NIGHT

Max, changed now into her signature midnight-creep outfit,
cruises her motorcycle quietly to a stop in the shadows.  She
dismounts, her manner alert and wary.

EXT.  WAREHOUSE BUILDING - NIGHT

BOOM DOWN

off a sign reading "Natoma Street."  A dark figure emerges
from an alley and moves quickly across the street.

MOVING WITH MAX as she crosses to a deeply shadowed door of
the warehouse.  She scans the empty street, looking up at the
buildings around her.  There is nobody in sight.

Max pulls out her picking tools and goes to work on the lock,
all the while listening and scanning around her.  Car
headlights from two blocks away sweep across her.  She turns
toward it and--

CLOSE UP ON MAX

We briefly see her eyes light up with the green cat retina
reflection.  The sound of the car fades, and she turns back
to her work.

NIGHTVISION

The street is bright as day and lurid green.  It is from high
up, and definitely NOT Max's POV, because Max is a small
figure completely visible hunched in the doorway, working on
the lock.  She gets the door open and slips stealthily
inside.

TIGHT ON SCOPE as it is lowered, revealing Lydecker.

                     LYDECKER
          I want a full perimeter seal.  And nobody
          goes in until I say.

WIDER, showing that Lydecker is addressing the leader of a
contingent of black-clad FEDERAL TACTICAL OPS OFFICERS who
are crouched along the roof parapet wall of a building across
the street from the warehouse.

                     TAC LEADER
          It's one girl.  Why don't we just take
          her when she walks out the door?

                     LYDECKER
          Listen to me carefully.  When you have
          the streets locked off in front and back,
          plus the alleys on both sides, and when
          you have a man on every door, window,
          airvent, mail slot and rathole around
          this building, you come back and tell me
          you're ready.  Okey-dokey?

                     TAC LEADER
          Yes sir.

He turns away, speaking rapidly into his walkie and--

IN THE STREET BELOW, three unmarked black vans pull up
quickly.

TIGHT ON BOOTED FEET hitting the pavement.

WIDER as squads of Tac-Ops team members pour out and run on
silent soft-soled shoes to positions around the building.

VARIOUS ANGLES as the Tac-Ops squads deploy with hand
signals, moving like well coordinated ninjas.  They are
anonymous in their black fatigues, ballistic vests and
gasmasks.  They carry submachine guns, and their utility
harnesses are dressed with flash-bang and gas grenades.

INT.  WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Max moves silently through the aisles of stacked packing
cases.  She peers around the corner at the office block of
the warehouse, which is an island of fluorescent light in the
dark gallery.  Inside, Sonrisa's men are lounging around.

As if sensing something, she peers into the darkness behind
her, then turns and studies Sonrisa's men.

INT.  OFFICE - NIGHT

The muscles squad are watching two fighters beating the crap
out of each other on HBO.  None of them are more than a few
feet from a machine gun or a shotgun.

                     LEAD THUG
          Get in there you mutt!  Hit 'em again.
          You pussy!

In a darkened officer next door, Sophy lies awake on a bed,
her tiny wrists handcuffed to the frame.  She has been
crying, but she is out of tears.

EXT.  WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Dark figures move in the shadows.  Climbing quietly up fire
escapes.  Moving rapidly to take up positions at windows and
loading doors.  On the roofs above, Tac-Ops guys hustle into
position and scan the area with nightvision scopes.  It's
like a high tech version of the end of Butch Cassidy.

WE FOLLOW a lone Tac trooper as he cat-steps along a second
floor landing.  He moves up on a filthy window and peers into
the black opening where the glass has been smashed out.  He
flips down his nightvision, attached to a band above his
gasmask, and scans the interior.

NIGHTVISION POV of the warehouse interior.  We see the office
area, and Sonrisa's men inside.  The green nightvision pans,
sweeping the aisles of the warehouse for a glimpse of Max.
Suddenly the image goes dark.

ANGLE ON the Tac trooper from inside the window.  A hand is
blocking his goggles.  Max's hand.  She is just inside the
window, pressed up against the wall, black on black in the
shadows.  The trooper whips his goggles up to look and--

WHAM!  She raps the guys head sideways into the brick
windowframe, then grabs him fast and yanks him inside.  Max
eases him to the balcony floor, looking around.  She waits in
the darkness to see if anyone has heard, then turns her
attention to the fallen Tac-Ops trooper.

INT.  WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

The kidnap team are into the fight.

                     LEAD THUG
          Go!  Go!  Aw jeeeez, did you see that?
          You're a waste'a clothes, you punk.  I
          give up.

EXT.  WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

CLOSE-UP LYDECKER

as he speaks into the microphone--

                     LYDECKER
          Standby.  Full breach on my count.
          Three, two--

INT.  WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

KA-BLAM!  The doors are blasted inward by squads with steel
battering rams.

BLAM!  BLAM!  BLAM!  Three flash-bangs go off, blinding
Sonrisa's men in the office.  Tac guys pour into the building
from all directions.  Tac-Ops Leader yells at the top of his
lungs--

                     TAC LEADER
          Federal Officers!  On the floor!  Now!

But Sonrisa's men are serious hardasses.  Shotguns, pistols
and machine guns come up and--

All of a sudden the Tac guys are facing a phalanx of heavy
iron.  Way more than they bargained for.

                     TAC LEADER
          Drop your weapons!  NOW!

                     LEAD THUG
          No!  You drop yours!

                     TAC LEADER
          DROP THE WEAPONS!!!

                     LEAD THUG
          Whyn't you come and get 'em!!

INT.  OFFICER ADJACENT - NIGHT

A Tac-Ops officer crosses rapidly in a crouch-run to Sophy
and unlatches the handcuffs.  Sophy is scooped up off the
bed, just as--

BADDABAM!!  All hell breaks loose in the next room.  Flying
glass, hunks of exploding plaster and flashes of gunfire
pursue the dark figure running out of the office with the
little girl tightly cradled.

TIGHT CUTS

of gangsters firing.  The Tac guys blasting back.  One fires
rounds from a rotary gas grenade launcher KACHUNK!  KACHUNK!

Shouting and pandemonium in the swirling tear gas, lit by
flashes of gunfire and flash-bang grenades.  We hear the Tac-
Ops guys yelling at the gangsters, the gangsters yelling at
the Tac guys.  Running figures in the smoke.

TRACKING BACK

with a single Tac team member who emerges from the roiling
gas carrying Sophy.  We MOVE IN, and see Max's eyes behind
the gas-mask.  Sophy is coughing from the gas.  The CAMERA
WHIPS AND FOLLOWS as Max strides toward the open door.

EXT.  WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

More Tac-Ops men are running toward the fight, heading in the
door as Max emerges.  They don't look twice at her.

TRACKING WITH MAX

as she walks away from the door.

REVERSE, HER POV IN SLOW MOTION

as a figure standing right in front of her turns.  It is the
man who killed her sister Eva, who shot her right in front of
Max at the Genedyne lab all those years ago... Lydecker.

CLOSE-UP OF MAX

her eyes full of a sudden, unreasoned fear.  She is about to
pass this man who has haunted her seizure-dreams for eleven
years, and time seems to dilate infinitely.

Lydecker looks right at her, seems to look right into her
eyes, into her soul.  Then he glances down at the coughing
little girl, and turns his attention toward the building.  He
doesn't even see her.

Max walks on, unchallenged, OUT OF FRAME.

INT.  WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

The Tac-Ops team closes in on the remaining gangsters.  The
lead thug, kneeling behind a desk amongst shattered glass and
plaster, throws out his empty Mac Ten, still yelling
belligerently.

                     LEAD THUG
          Alright!  Alright!  Alright!  Jeeezz!!

A crowd of black figures swarm over him, slamming him into
the ground.

EXT.  WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

CLOSE-UP OF LYDECKER

now in REAL TIME.  Seen from behind, his black gloved hand
holding up his walkie-talkie.

                     LYDECKER
          Tac-One, what's your status?  Do you have
          her or not?

                     TAC LEADER (V.O.)
          Negative.  We do not have the subject.
          Repeat, we do not have the subject.

Lydecker turns slowly, toward CAMERA...looking in the
direction Max went.  His eyes narrow with a dawning
realization.  WE HEAR Max's motorcycle revving quickly
through the gears as it screams off into the night.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  SONRISA'S MANSION - NIGHT

Bruno's car pulls up to the main gate.  He addresses the
GUARD--

                     BRUNO
          Need to see the boss.

                     GUARD
          He doesn't wanna be disturbed.

                     BRUNO
          It's kinda important.

                     GUARD
               (shrugs)
          Sorry.

Bruno nods, resigned, puts the car in reverse, turns around
as if backing up, then suddenly grabs the guard by the shirt
collar, pulls him into the car and closes the electric window
on his neck.

The car screeches backward, dragging the guard into the
middle of the street.  Bruno punches him in the face, then
opens the window and the guard collapses in a heap,
unconscious.  Then Bruno blithely shifts gears and drives
onto the grounds of the estate.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  MANSION STUDY - NIGHT

Throughout the following, on the bank of monitors in b.g.
see Bruno, moving monitor to monitor as he makes his way from
the front door, through the house toward Sonrisa's study.
Meanwhile, the redhead, her hair pulled back in a long braid,
sits in a chair, rolling her head languidly as Sonrisa stands
behind her rubbing her neck with one hand, a snifter of
brandy in the other.

CLOSE ON REDHEAD

as Sonrisa sets down his drink.

                     REDHEAD
          Right there... Oooh, that feels good.

And then there's a sound-- a distinct SNIP.  The girl sits up
with a start, looking at horror at Sonrisa, a pair of
scissors in one hand, her braid in the other.

                     SONRISA
          I like you better this way.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT.  HALLWAY OUTSIDE STUDY - NIGHT

Bruno stops at the door, grabs his weapon, then reaches for
the door knob.

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT.  MANSION - NIGHT

Max is on her motorcycle, Sophy on the back.  As the
motorcycle glides past the mansion, see two FLASHES of blue
light in an upstairs window accompanied by the sharp REPORT
of gunfire.  As Max and Sophy head off into the night--

                                                DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

CLOSE ON A TRAFFIC LIGHT

as it turns red.  PAN DOWN to Max and Sophy as their
motorcycle rolls to a stop at an intersection adjacent to
Logan's building.

Sophy sees something, clambers off the bike and runs toward
her mother, who's exiting Logan's building down the block.

                     SOPHY
          Mommie...

Lauren looks up, sees her little girl and races toward her
with outstretched arms.

                     LAUREN
          Sophy...

From a remove that is both emotional and physical, Max
watches as the mother scoops her child up into her arms and
just holds her, tears streaming down her face.  After a long
moment, Lauren looks over to Max, offering a simple--

                     LAUREN
          Thank you...

But Max has taken off down the street, popping a wheelie for
a block or so before she disappears into the night.  Off
Lauren and Sophy as we--

                                                DISSOLVE TO:

INT.  JAM PONY X-PRESS - DAY (DAY FIVE)

CLOSE ON TV

Footage of Sonrisa's mansion taped off as a crime scene.

                     REPORTER (V.O.)
          Businessman Edgar Sonrisa was cut down in
          a hail of gunfire at his Pacific Heights
          mansion late last night.

PICK UP and STAY WITH a MESSENGER who enters with a box
tucked under one arm.  He crosses through the throng of
employees getting their morning assignments from Normal at
dispatch.

                     REPORTER (V.O.)
          Eyewitnesses identified the assailant as
          thirty-two year old Bruno Anselmo who
          died at the scene when bodyguards for the
          reputed crime boss returned fire.  Police
          are investigating.

                     MESSENGER
          Delivery for Jam Pony.  Need a signature.

Normal signs the form.

                     MESSENGER
          That'll be a hundred twenty seven
          dollars.

                     NORMAL
          For what?

                     MESSENGER
          C-O-D.
               (off the form)
          From Ratterman's Mortuary.

                     NORMAL
          You're mistaken--

                     MESSENGER
          No...
               (checks the form)
          Thelonius Argentary at this address.

                     A.K.A.
          That's Theo in there?

A.K.A. reaches for the box.

                     MESSENGER
          Not until I get my money.

All eyes fall on Normal who grows uncomfortable under the
gaze.

                     NORMAL
          What're you lookin' at me for?  I'm not
          his next of kin.  Anyway, I don't got
          that kind of cash lyin' around.

                     HERBAL
          Theo rode for this place a long time,
          man.

With that Herbal Thought picks up a waste basket, dumps it's
contents on the floor, tosses a wad of bills into it and
passes it along.  FOLLOW the waste basket as it goes hand to
hand.  PAN across the somber faces of Sketchy, Druid, A.K.A.,
Three-sixty and finally Max, each one contributing whatever's
in their pockets.  Normal finally relents, fishes for some
cash and reaches toward the basket.  But Herbal Thought
catches his arm.

                     HERBAL
          Keep your money, mon.  We can take care
          of our own.

Max hands the basket to the messenger, takes the box of
ashes.

                     MAX
          I'll make sure this gets to his family.

She goes.

                     SKETCHY
          Gonna miss Theo.

                     DRUID
               (nods)
          A righteous dude.

After a beat--

                     SKETCHY
          So, who gets his bike?

Off which--

                                                DISSOLVE TO:

                     TWO MONTHS LATER

INT.  LOGAN'S APARTMENT - DAY

Logan in a wheelchair at his computer console, as he finishes
pixelating his next computer hack to obscure his identity.

                     LOGAN (V.O.)
          This has been a Video Free America
          bulletin via the Eyes Only Informant
          Net... Peace.

He senses something and turns his wheelchair to see Max.

                     MAX
          See you're back and still rocking the boat.

                     LOGAN
          Somebody's got to.

He just looks at her, then after a beat--

                     MAX
          I would've come sooner, but...I didn't...
          How're you doin'?

                     LOGAN
          Not in any pain...the good and bad news
          of a blown out spinal cord.

                     MAX
          I'm sorry.

                     LOGAN
          My mother used to say the universe is
          right on schedule.  Everything happens
          like it's supposed to.

                     MAX
          You believe that?

                     LOGAN
          I've never been much for trying to
          understand why bad things happen, I just
          know they do.  So the job's to figure out
          how to deal with the consequences.  Which
          you did... You took that sonuvabitch out.

                     MAX
               (modest)
          Well, not me personally.

                     LOGAN
          On accounta you, Sonrisa didn't get to
          buy off the jury, or kill the judge.
          He's gone.  Once and for all.  It was
          war, Max, and you won.

                     MAX
          That's what soldiers do, right?

Logan hands Max a box.

                     MAX
          What's this?

                     LOGAN
          Open it.

She opens the box, pulls out the Egyptian statue.

                     LOGAN
          It turned up on the black market.  One of
          my sources thought I might be interested.

                     MAX
               (clearly moved)
          I don't know what to say.

                     LOGAN
          Deeds, not words.  I need your help.

As he wheels himself over to his computer--

                     LOGAN
          Forty-seven people drowned last night off
          the coast of Vancouver after paying
          smugglers twenty thousand apiece to get
          into Canada so they could get work in
          order to eat.  Only they got marched
          overboard at gunpoint instead.

                     MAX
          Look, thank you for this but--

He hits a button on his computer keyboard, scrolling through
photographs of young girls.

                     LOGAN
          These girls, kidnapped during the last
          month and sold overseas to the highest
          bidder.  The oldest is twelve.  The
          youngest about the same age you were when
          you escaped.

                     MAX
          And I feel real bad about all that but it
          doesn't mean I need to get involved.

                     LOGAN
          You are involved.  By being alive you're
          involved.

                     MAX
          We're quoting Mom again.

                     LOGAN
          Maybe we got screwed outta living in a
          time when we could sit in a cafe, sipping
          our lattes wearing two thousand dollar
          wrist watches while we plan our next
          vacation.  But the world got a whole lot
          meaner all of a sudden.  Wasn't s'posed
          to, but it did.  And it's back to the law
          of the jungle.  You got your predators
          and you got your victims.

                     MAX
          And you still think you can do something
          to change that.

                     LOGAN
          With your help.

                     MAX
          Civilization as we know it is unraveling
          before our eyes.  But Logan and Max, with
          a song in their hearts are gonna march
          into battle to keep that from happening.

                     LOGAN
          And whether you want to believe it or
          not, you already fired the first shot.
               (then)
          On another matter, Federal Corrections
          used to keep records on distinguishing
          marks-- scars, tattoos.  I did a search
          and came up with this.

He hands her a picture of a bar-code on a man's neck.  Then a
mug shot--

INSERT ON THE PHOTO

a handsome kid, late teens.

Max studies it, her eyes well up with tears.

                     LOGAN
          That was taken nine years ago... I.D.'d
          as Michael Hanover.  Sentenced to 18
          months in the state penn at Rawlins,
          Wyoming for armed robbery.  He escaped
          from custody after 4 days.  Hasn't been
          seen or heard from since.

                     MAX
          Zack... He made it... He's alive...

Off Max--

                                                DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE - NIGHT

Once again seated atop one of the towers of the Golden Gate
Bridge, the city of San Francisco glimmering in the
background.  Max is lost in thought, then after a beat--

                     MAX (V.O.)
          I knew it... I always knew he was out
          there somewhere...

After a long beat, she sighs, then--

                     MAX (V.O.)
          Meanwhile, I got Logan on my ass about
          these people and all their problems and
          how screwed up the world is and how we
          gotta go out there and turn the mother
          around... Like I even care.

Then Max turns, looking off into the night sky, her dark eyes
flashing, her hair alive in the wind as we--

                                               FADE TO BLACK.

                          THE END



