SANDMAN

By Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio

Second Drft

April 12, 1998

 
FADE IN:
 
 
EXT.  CHURCHYARD - NIGHT
 
CLOSE ON: a word carved in stone: 'DREAMS'.
 
BEGIN CREDITS
 
PULL BACK to reveal the full inscription:
 
'FOR IN THAT SLEEP OF DEATH WHAT DREAMS MUST COME.'
 
It's carved on a large obelisk grave marker. Beneath the 
inscription is a name: THIBAULT, and dates: 1861-1917.
 
PULL FURTHER BACK: Perched on the marker is a stone effigy of 
the angel of death, wings spread wide, half-smile on her 
face.
 
AND FURTHER BACK: Ropes are wrapped around the marker. The 
ropes tighten, and the marker is suddenly PULLED OVER, the 
CAMERA taking off with it --
 
The marker is dragged along, through deep grass ... then with 
a bump it's on a dirt road, then over a bridge. It's dragged 
by a team of horses. Rain starts to fall. The marker pulls 
away, continuing on toward --
 
Burgess Manor, a dark outline against the gray marble sky --
 
END CREDITS
 
 
INT.  BURGESS MANOR - GARAGE - CIRCA 1930'S - NIGHT
 
The garage was once the carriage house. Several luxury cars, 
circa 1930s, fill the bays. The marker lies in an empty one. 
Two men stand nearby.
 
One is RODERICK BURGESS. A commanding presence, radiating a 
charisma both disturbing and mesmerizing. He is in his early 
twenties, but his soul is much older -- and darker.
 
The other is SMITH. Middle-aged, face drawn, he peers out of 
the garage furtively. He's worried, preoccupied. A white 
clerical collar is almost hidden beneath his coat and scarf.
 
                         SMITH
                  (hopefully)
          The rain will wash out the tracks ...
 
Burgess moves slowly to the marker.
 
                         BURGESS
          I've found it. Crowley couldn't. Mathers 
          couldn't. Only I could.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      2.
 
 
                         SMITH
          I didn't see anybody on the 
          road ...
 
Burgess isn't listening to him; he's preoccupied with the 
marker. He examines it gleefully, reverently.
 
                         BURGESS
          Thibault had it stolen from the Vatican 
          Library -- that's common knowledge. But 
          then it disappeared. He told Yeats he'd 
          destroyed it. But he didn't. He couldn't. 
          And now -- I've found it.
 
                         SMITH
          I don't think anyone saw me.
 
Burgess finally looks at the man. Cocks his head, amused.
 
                         BURGESS
          Don't worry, Vicar. No one saw you. No 
          one knows what you've done -- except you 
          and me. And God.
                  (insinuating)
          Just like your other little ... 
          peccadilloes. 
 
The Vicar shuts his eyes in pain.
 
                         SMITH
          Please ...
                  (looks at Burgess)
          What they say is true. You are the most 
          wicked man alive.
 
                         BURGESS
                  (chuckles)
          I've always liked that title.
 
He grabs up a sledge hammer, startling the other man -- as he 
intended. He smiles, and SMASHES the hammer down on the 
marker. Another blow. Another --
 
The marker is hollow. Hidden inside is a large oilskin 
bundle. Burgess drops the sledge. Lifts out the bundle.
 
Burgess unwraps it carefully. Inside is a thick book.
 
                         BURGESS
          The Magdalene Grimoire. Finally.
 
The book is heavy, leather bound, brittle with age. Burgess 
pages through it greedily. It is filled with tiny, cramped 
writing, arcane diagrams, drawings.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      3.
 
 
                         SMITH
          That's it then? You can do it now? You 
          can ... capture the angel of death?
 
                         BURGESS
          Death isn't an angel. She's one of the 
          Endless ... who existed long before 
          angels ... and will exist long after the 
          final cherubim has sung its last hosanna.
 
                         SMITH
          Heresy.
 
                         BURGESS
          For your sake, hope it's not. The 
          Magdalene Grimoire is all the Order of 
          Ancient Mysteries needed. With it, we 
          will summon and imprison Death.
                  (beat)
          And I will command who shall live ... and 
          who shall die.
 
                         SMITH
          Then ... you'll keep our bargain?
                  (no answer)
          Please -- you'll keep your promise?
 
                         BURGESS
          Of course, Vicar. You have my word. You 
          won't die. And you will never have to 
          stand in the judgment of your God.
                  (clasps him on the shoulder; cheery)
          Good night.
 
He exits the garage, for the main house. Smith looks down at 
the marker, at the shattered effigy of death.
 
                         SMITH
          Thank God --
 
He catches himself, realizing he shouldn't be praying. His 
eyes fill with tears; he slumps.
 
                         SMITH
          What have I done?
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      4.
 
 
INT.  BURGESS MANOR - CELLAR - NIGHT
 
Candles burn in the darkness. Robed figures inscribe a large 
circle on the floor -- chalk white against the black stone. 
Runic characters decorate it.
 
                         ACOLYTE
          It is midnight, Lord Magus.
 
                         BURGESS
          It is time. Elspeth, love..?
 
A beautiful YOUNG WOMAN nods adoringly. She crouches on all 
fours at Burgess' feet.
 
Items are placed on her back: a ceremonial bowl, inside which 
floats a human heart. A long twisted knife. A feather. Coins. 
The Magdalene Grimoire. She is a human altar.
 
Burgess opens the book. He begins to intone, displaying the 
items as he names them:
 
                         BURGESS
          I give you coin I made from a stone. I 
          give you a song I stole from the dirt. I 
          give you a knife from under the hills. 
          And a stick I stuck through a dead man's 
          eye. I give you a claw I ripped from a 
          rat. I give you a name, and the name is 
          lost.
 
He jabs his forearm with the knife. Blood drips onto the 
feather.
 
                         BURGESS (CONT'D)
          I give you blood from out of my vein, and 
          a feather I pulled from an angel's wing.
 
He throws the feather into the circle.
 
                         BURGESS (CONT'D)
          I summon with poison, and summon with 
          pain. I open the way and open the gates. 
          Come.
 
The acolytes echo the word 'Come.'
 
                         BURGESS (CONT'D)
          I summon you in the names of the old 
          lords. Namtar. Allatu. Morax. Naberius. 
          Klesh. Vepar. Maymon. We summon.
 
The acolytes chant 'Come.'
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      5.
 
 
                         BURGESS (CONT'D)
          From the dark they call you ... into the 
          dark they call you. Coin and song, knife 
          and stick ... 
 
In the center of the circle, the air SHIMMERS -- 
 
                         BURGESS (CONT'D)
          Claw and name, blood and feather ... Here 
          in the darkness ... 
 
The air SOLIDIFIES, taking shape -- 
The acolytes echo 'Here in the darkness.'
 
                         BURGESS (CONT'D)
          Here in the darkness, we summon you 
          together. COME!
 
There is FLASH  -- 
 
-- and a black-cloaked FIGURE materializes in mid-air.
 
His head and face are covered by a HELM that looks like the 
skull of some dead ancient god (which it is).
 
A large, vibrant heart-shaped RUBY adorns his neck.
 
A small leather POUCH hangs from one hand.
 
-- and then the figure collapses. He lies splayed on the 
floor, in the center of the circle.
 
The acolytes are hushed, amazed.
 
                         ACOLYTE
          We did it. I don't believe it. We did it -- 
 
                         BURGESS
          No. We failed. This isn't Death. Damn it 
          to hell.
 
Silence from the others as Burgess considers the figure.
 
                         BURGESS
          Even so ... strip him.
 
The Acolyte nods, reaches across the circle -- 
 
-- and SCREAMS as his arm TWISTS violently, torqued by some 
unseen force. Burgess shoves him away from the circle.
 
                         BURGESS
          Fool! If you'd broken the circle, he 
          could have escaped!
 
He grabs Elspeth by the hair, slashes with the knife --
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      6.
 
 
Elspeth's head lolls to one side. Burgess catches her before 
she collapses.
 
                         ACOLYTE
          My god -- 
 
Burgess lets Elspeth fall to the ground. He holds his hands 
up like a surgeon. They are stained with Elspeth's blood.
 
Careful not to break the circle, Burgess steps close to the 
captured FIGURE. With bloody hands he strips off the cloak.
 
He takes the ruby. 
 
He takes the pouch. 
 
And then he removes the helm -- 
 
The face revealed is bone white, framed by jet black hair. An 
aquiline nose and high cheekbones, a face carved from finest 
marble -- save the eyes. These are obsidian, deep as the 
universe -- and staring directly at Burgess.
 
He is the personification of dream. 
 
He is SANDMAN.
 
Burgess draws back, unsettled.
 
                         BURGESS
                  (shaken)
          ... I think, at day's end, this will have 
          been a very profitable evening's work.
 
With a gesture, he orders the acolytes out. Burgess continues 
to stare at Sandman as he backs out of the room.
 
The door to the room pivots on an axis; the other side is 
brick. It is clearly a secret room. The door swings shut.
 
Sandman lies on the floor, unmoving. And then --
 
-- a single, small tear slips down his cheek --
 
From somewhere in the empty room comes the SOUND of water 
DRIPPING, slowly. In the corner, a drop of water slips from a 
pipe, courses down the wall to the floor.
 
                                                 DISSOLVE TO:
 
EXT.  THE WORLD - VARIOUS
 
A scratchy recording of 'Dream a Little Dream of Me' fades in 
and out. We see images, drifting, dreamlike, drawn from news 
reels, photographs, drawings: A bread line. Gandhi. Astaire 
and Rogers, dancing. Flagpole sitting and dance marathons. 
Hitler at a rally ... 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      7.
 
 
INT.  BURGESS MANOR - CELLAR - CIRCA LATE 1940S - NIGHT
 
CLOSE ON: Sandman's eyes. He's sitting up now, hugging his 
knees to his chest. But still unmoving.
 
Burgess, nearly twenty years older, sits in a chair opposite 
him, studying him.
 
                         BURGESS
          I know you can grant me boons. Power. 
          Immortality. A promise you won't seek 
          revenge.
                  (beat)
          Well? I know you can understand me. Say 
          something!
 
Sandman does not respond. Does not move. Just stares.
 
                         BURGESS (CONT'D)
          Damn you.
 
The door pivots, and ALEX BURGESS pushes in. He's seven, and 
he wants nothing more than to please his father. He carries a 
large folio, dusty and falling apart.
 
                         ALEX
          Sir! I found it!
 
                         BURGESS
          Yes, Alex?
 
                         ALEX
          See? Here. In the Paginarum Fulvarum.
 
He leafs through the folio. It is filled with old drawings 
and paintings. We catch quick glimpses of figures titled 
Destiny, Death, Desire, figures we will learn more of later.
 
                         ALEX
          You said he had to be one of the Endless. 
          But it wasn't Death. And it's not Desire, 
          or Despair -- or Destiny. That'd been 
          brilliant if you'd caught him -- um ...
 
Burgess has fixed him with a stern look, humbling him.
 
                         ALEX (CONT'D) 
          Uh, anyway ... Here.
 
He finds the drawing he's looking for, displays it:
 
A Heirmonyous Bosch-like portrait of Sandman in his helm and 
cloak. Terrifying. The drawing is inscribed 'Here is said 
thee Kinge of Dremes.'
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      8.
 
 
                         ALEX (CONT'D)
          See? He's Dream.
                  (reading)
          Morpheus, Lord Shaper. the Prince of 
          Stories ... the Sandman.
 
Burgess takes the folio, examines it, nodding.
 
                         BURGESS
          Yes. I was hoping you'd work it out on 
          your own one day. And you have. Well 
          done, Alex.
 
                         ALEX
          Thank you, father --
 
                         BURGESS
          Father?
 
                         ALEX
                  (chastised)
          Thank you, Lord Magus.
                  (gathers his courage)
          Sir ... Since you know his true name, 
          can't you make him do what you want?
 
                         BURGESS
          Cretin. That kind of magick is too 
          trifling for him and his ilk. The Endless 
          are not mortal
 
                         ALEX
          But if they're gods -- 
 
                         BURGESS
          They are not gods. Gods come and go. Gods 
          fade away.
 
                         ALEX
          But ... are we safe? What if his brothers 
          and sisters come after us?
 
Burgess broods on this ... glances at a shelf. On it lie 
Sandman's helm, pouch and ruby. He fingers the helm.
 
                         BURGESS
          Protection can be had. Deals can be 
          struck ... 
                  (to Alex)
          You've never seen a summoning, have you, 
          son? Tonight, you will. We'll conjure a 
          demon of hell. And trade this --
                  (lifts the helm)
          -- for our safety.
                         (more)
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      9.
 
 
                         BURGESS (CONT'D)
                  (turns to leave)
          Inform the acolytes.
 
                         ALEX
          Yes, Lord Magus. But what about ... what 
          about him?
 
                         BURGESS
          He will not get out unless the circle is 
          broken. And the circle will not be broken 
          unless I order it.
 
He leaves, Alex trailing. Sandman watches them go..
 
In the corner, a DROP of water slips from a pipe, courses 
down the wall to the floor. Twenty years has worn a channel 
in the stone; the drop flows along it. And then another ... 
 
                                                 DISSOLVE TO:
 
EXT.  THE WORLD - VARIOUS
 
More time goes by, more images, dreamlike: McCarthy in the 
Senate. Lenin reviewing a May Day parade. Walt Disney opening 
Disneyland. Hula hoops, 3-D movies, Elvis. The KKK marching 
on Washington. All accompanied by the Everly Brothers' 
version of 'All I Ever Do is Dream.'
 
 
INT.  BURGESS MANOR - CELLAR - CIRCA 1960S - NIGHT
 
The door pushes open. Burgess enters, slightly drunk. At 
sixty, he's still handsome and vital. With him is -- 
 
RACHEL. Beautiful in the extreme, radiating sexual heat. 
Dressed in the counterculture style of the day. She is 
giggling -- then draws up short at the sight of Sandman.
 
                         RACHEL
          My God ... it's true.
 
She circles Sandman slowly. 
 
Alex, now in his twenties, has followed them into the room; 
he watches Rachel's every step.
 
                         RACHEL
          He's magnificent. And you caught him, 
          Lord Magus?
 
Burgess smiles -- but it fades when Alex speaks.
 
                         ALEX
          Actually, it was a mistake. He was trying 
          to -- 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      10.
 
 
                         BURGESS
          Shut up, Alex.
 
                         RACHEL
          Is he a demon?
 
                         BURGESS
                  (shakes his head)
          He's more dangerous than any demon I've 
          known.
 
He scoops up the pouch from the shelf.
 
                         BURGESS (CONT'D)
          Here. This is what I told you about.
                  (opens the pouch)
          The stuff that dreams are made of ... 
 
                         ALEX
                  (to himself)
          'Made on.' Quote it right, you old idiot 
          ...
 
He goes unheard as Burgess sprinkles some of the sand into 
his own hand. It sparkles. He holds it out to Rachel.
 
                         BURGESS
          No matter how much you take out, there's 
          always some left ... Try it.
 
                         RACHEL
          How do I ..? Sniff it?
 
                         BURGESS
          Sniff it, swallow it, rub it on your skin 
          ... pour it in your eyes ... it doesn't 
          matter.
 
Rachel considers. Puts one finger in her mouth, moistening 
it, rolls it in the sand. With a wicked grin, eyes never 
leaving Burgess', she trails her hand down toward her jeans -- 
 
Burgess stares, panting slightly -- 
 
Her fingers slips beneath the waistband. Between her legs -- 
 
                         BURGESS
          Oh, Rachel ... You are a wild one ... 
 
She smiles, shows her teeth -- her eyes go wide. She is 
seeing something beautiful, rapturous. She is seeing life as 
a dream.
 
                         RACHEL
          Oh ... oh, my ... 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      11.
 
 
Roderick sets the pouch down, moves to Rachel. Begins to 
nuzzle her neck, undress her. She responds to him -- 
 
-- but her eyes never leave the pouch.
 
Alex's gaze lingers on Rachel as he backs away. Then he steps 
discreetly out of the room. 
 
And Sandman continues to watch ... and wait ... 
 
 
INT.  BURGESS MANOR - CELLAR - NIGHT
 
The door opens. Alex slips in, followed by Rachel.
 
                         RACHEL
          Is he really what old Roddy says he is?
 
                         ALEX
          I don't know ... Stupid old Roddy 
          should've died by now and left me in 
          charge ... he really can work some sort 
          of magic ... 
 
                         RACHEL
          That sand ... that was magic ... 
 
Alex grabs the pouch. Considers, then takes the ruby as well. 
He heads for the door. Rachel catches him.
 
                         RACHEL
          Please ... just a little.
 
Alex considers. Opens the pouch. Rachel pinches out some 
sand, sniffs it. It takes effect immediately, transporting 
her. Alex grabs her hand.
 
                         ALEX
          Come on ... 
 
She pulls against him, grabs for the pouch. He lets her take 
it. She clutches it. One last look at Sandman; then she 
allows herself to be led from the room.
 
Sandman gazes after them. 
 
In the corner, a DROP of water slips from the pipe, courses 
down the wall to the floor. Flows along the channel, which 
now leads to a small pool.
 
                                                 DISSOLVE TO:
 
EXT.  THE WORLD - VARIOUS
 
More time goes by. Nixon, victorious over McGovern. An EST 
meeting, slam dancing punks, a 'Star Wars' line. The 
Ayatollah exhorting a mob. The song is 'Dreamweaver.' It 
skips.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      12.
 
 
INT.  APARTMENT - NIGHT
 
A man -- call him DAVID -- sleeps fitfully in the one-room 
efficiency apartment. He wears the pants and shirt of a 
postal uniform; the rest is scattered on the floor.
 
The TV is on, volume low, showing Bicentennial celebration 
news footage. Traffic NOISE comes from outside, mixed with 
the sound of a DOG BARKING.
 
All the sounds FADE OUT, save the BARKING. It becomes 
rhythmic, constant.
 
David's eyes flutter open.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Hello, David.
 
The CORINTHIAN is a young man with silver hair, whipsaw build 
clothed in white silk pants and T-shirt. 
 
He wears small, round dark glasses and an amused smile.
 
                         DAVID
          Hello. How did you get in here?
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          I wanted to talk to you, David. To tell 
          you that you are not fulfilling your 
          potential.
 
                         DAVID
          I'm not? Who are you?
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          I'm your friend. You can call me the 
          Corinthian. I want to show you something.
 
He gestures to the TV. The dog continues to BARK.
 
ON SCREEN: what looks like the opening credits of a mid-
seventies cop show: studio backlot heroics and car chases. It 
lingers on a POV shot: approaching a parked red Torino. Two 
figures inside, one blond, one brunette -- both women. Their 
hair is almost ridiculously long and straight.
 
David leans forward at the sight of the women. His fists 
clench. The Corinthian smiles.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          I've shown other people things like this, 
          David. All through history. But none as 
          special as you.
 
ON SCREEN: the POV shot continues. A .44 appears in frame, 
and FIRES. The windshield shatters, and the brunette's head 
snaps back -- a bloodless, TV killing. The blond looks up and 
smiles.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      13.
 
 
The gun FIRES again.
 
David's eyes fill with tears of joy. The rhythmic BARKING 
continues.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          You see, David? If you can dream it -- 
          you can be it.
 
David saddens.
 
                         DAVID
          That's all this is? This isn't really 
          happening? This is a dream?
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Sadly, yes. That's the only way  I've 
          ever talked to special people. But ...
                  (David brightens)
          Something has happened, David. And now 
          you can help me. You can free me. As I 
          can free you.
 
                         DAVID
          How?
 
The Corinthian smiles, spreads his hands.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Wake up, David. Just wake up.
 
CLOSE ON: David, sleeping fitfully. His eyes flutter open. He 
looks at the TV. The bicentennial footage continues. NORMAL 
SOUND has returned.
 
                         DAVID
          Just a dream ...
 
A hand drops on his shoulder. The Corinthian's hand.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Not any more.
 
He places something on the bed in front of David -- a .44 
REVOLVER. David picks it up reverently. Heavy and real.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Good-bye, David. Thank you.
 
He rises, heads for the door.
 
                         DAVID
          Wait! Will I ever see you again? Will you 
          ... talk with me some more?
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      14.
 
 
The Corinthian pauses.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          I'll always be here, David. I'll always 
          talk to you. Just listen.
 
Once again, the SOUND fades away, isolating the BARKING DOG.
 
David listens, nods. The Corinthian nods back, then opens the 
door and leaves. The door shuts quietly -- and NORMAL SOUND 
returns.
 
David lifts the revolver. Spins the cylinder. POINTS it at 
the CAMERA --
 
                                                      CUT TO:
 
INT.  BURGESS MANOR - CELLAR - CIRCA 1980S - NIGHT
 
Burgess leans heavily on a cane. He is now a withered, 
fragile old man. He stares at Sandman, who stares back. 
Suddenly, Burgess is wracked by a violent coughing attack. He 
gets himself under control.
 
                         BURGESS
          It's your fault! Damn you!
                  (resigned)
          You aren't Death, but you live forever. 
          You haven't aged a day since I caught 
          you. You could have given me power beyond 
          my wildest dreams.
                  (chokes back tears)
          I ... I didn't have to get so old. I 
          shouldn't have had to get old.
 
He has another violent coughing attack. Slips to one knee.
 
                         DEATH
          That's it, let it out.
 
Another person is in the cellar. She looks about nineteen. 
Long black hair, pale skin. A kinda groovy, perky neo-punk 
girl-next-door, dressed in black jeans and camisole. An ahnk, 
the Egyptian symbol for life, hangs from her neck. She looks 
genuinely concerned for Burgess.
 
And we recognize her face: it was the face of the angel of 
death on the grave marker.
 
                         BURGESS
          Who are you?
 
She gestures. He looks down. Sees -- 
 
His own body. Lying on the ground near his feet. Dead.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      15.
 
 
                         BURGESS
          Are you ... you aren't Death ... are you?
 
DEATH smiles, half-shrugs. She knows she's not what he 
expected.
 
                         DEATH
          Hi.
 
                         BURGESS
          I tried to catch you once. Got him 
          instead.
 
                         DEATH
          I know.
 
                         BURGESS
          Am I ... are you going to punish me? Am I 
          bound for hell?
 
                         DEATH
          I'm just here to take you from this world 
          to the next ... Destinations are up to 
          you.
 
                         BURGESS
          Oh ... I am. I'm going to hell. I'm 
          Roderick Burgess. I'm the most wicked man 
          alive.
 
                         DEATH
                  (a bright smile)
          Not anymore.
 
She takes Burgess' hand. Looks up at Sandman.
 
                         DEATH
                  (genuine sadness)
          I'm sorry, little brother ... there's 
          nothing I can do. I ... I miss you.
 
She and Burgess fade into the shadows. We hear a SOFT 
FLUTTERING SOUND, like WINGS.
 
She's gone. Just Burgess' body on the floor ... And Sandman, 
watching. The water still DRIPS; the pool in the corner of 
the room is quite deep now.
 
 
EXT.  THE WORLD - VARIOUS
 
Images leading to the present day. A student stands defiantly 
in front of a tank. An evangelist breaks down in tears. A 
white Bronco moves slowly down the freeway. Demonstrators 
join hands in a field of brightly colored quilts. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      16.
 
 
INT.  BURGESS MANOR - CELLAR - PRESENT - NIGHT
 
In the corner, a DROP of water slips from a pipe, courses 
down the wall to the floor. Flows along the carved channel in 
the stone, into the pool -- 
 
The pool OVERFLOWS. A line of water trickles its way across 
the floor, across the faded chalk runes of the circle. It 
wipes the line of chalk away -- 
 
The circle is broken. 
 
With a cry of pain, Sandman falls forward, collapses outside 
the circle.
 
He rolls over. Weak. In pain. His lips part. His voice is 
filled with dark mystery, a voice that can inspire dreams and 
command nightmares:
 
                         SANDMAN
          At ... last.
 
He gathers himself, rises. Stands, a bit unsteady.
 
He looks down at the remains of Roderick Burgess, decayed and 
brittle with age. He picks up the skull. Regards it.
 
Sandman squeezes. The skull SHATTERS. There is no joy in his 
eyes as pieces sift out from between his fingers.
 
Sandman looks at the shelf that once held his belongings. 
Empty. He looks away. Moves toward the door --
 
 
EXT.  PARKING LOT - NIGHT
 
Sodium lamps cast a sickly yellow light on the nearly-empty 
lot. A WOMAN hurriedly click-clacks toward her car, keys 
already out. She unlocks the door, opens it --
 
Someone slams it shut: the CORINTHIAN. He has seemingly 
appeared from nowhere. He smiles at her.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Beautiful night to be alive, don't you 
          think?
 
                         WOMAN
          Stay away from me.
 
She crouches slightly, flexes her fingers. Her red-painted 
fingernails glint. She knows self-defense. The Corinthian 
draws a knife lazily, steps forward.
 
The Woman kicks at his shin -- he avoids it. But she brings 
her foot down on his -- hard. She grabs either side of his 
head, her thumbs clawing for his eyes behind his sunglasses --
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      17.
 
 
She SCREAMS, yanks her hands back. She crouches, staring down 
at her hands, which drip with blood.
 
                         WOMAN
          What did you do?
 
The Corinthian straightens his sunglasses. The woman crawls 
under the car. The Corinthian grabs her ankle -- she SCREAMS, 
clutches at the pavement, grabs for the tire, as she is 
inexorably dragged out from under the car.
 
                         CORINTHIAN (O.S.)
          Don't worry. I won't kill you. That would 
          draw all sorts of the wrong kind of 
          attention. I just want to look into your 
          eyes --
 
Suddenly, she is no longer being dragged. She twists, peers 
out from under the car --
 
The Corinthian stands still, looking up toward the night sky.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          He's back. He's BACK. No! It's not fair! 
          I won't allow it. I won't go back!
 
He looks down at the woman.
 
                         CORINTHIAN (CONT'D)
          Don't worry. I can stop him. I'm not 
          going back.
 
She cowers in terror. Opens her eyes -- the Corinthian is 
gone. She blinks -- it's as if he was never there --
 
-- except for her hands. The Woman drags herself out from 
under the car. Raises her hands --
 
Her THUMBS BLEED, as though bitten through by tiny sharp 
teeth. She starts to cry.
 
 
EXT.  BURGESS MANOR - NIGHT
 
Boarded up, windows broken, overgrown. Sandman stands under 
the night sky. Reaches out his arms. Shadows move, and 
darkness stretches towards him.
 
Sandman wraps the shadows around him -- 
 
-- and he is gone.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      18.
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - DUSK
 
A SANDSTORM rages; there is the WHITE NOISE of the howling 
wind. Shadows flow inside of it, and Sandman's dark outline 
emerges, one arm raised, a shield against the wind. He peers 
ahead. In front of him is:
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - THE GATES OF HORN AND IVORY - DUSK
 
Ornately carved. Flanked by gargoyles. Sandman is relieved at 
the sight.
 
                         SANDMAN
          The Gates of Horn and Ivory. Once 
          through, I will see my castle ... I will 
          see --
 
The gates part before him. Sandman steps through -- 
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - SANDMAN'S PALACE - DUSK
 
                         SANDMAN
          -- my home.
 
Sandman stares in horror -- 
 
Ahead of him are the remains of Sandman's Dream Palace. 
Beautiful, once, but now overgrown and broken -- its glass 
walls CRACKED, its delicate spires BROKEN. The majestic 
columns have fallen into RUBBLE.
 
Sandman slumps before it as if struck down. From nearby comes 
the sound of gentle weeping -- and a voice:
 
                         LUCIEN (O.S.)
          Breaks your heart, my Lord, doesn't it?
 
Sandman turns.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Lucien?
 
In the shadow of the gates sits LUCIEN, Sandman's librarian. 
He rises to his feet. Pointed ears and round spectacles, 
dressed as a clown might dress for a formal dinner. 
 
He stares at Sandman, smiling, tears in his eyes. We realize 
he's weeping at Sandman's return.
 
                         LUCIEN
          One and the same, my Lord.
                  (he bows)
          At your service, as always.
                  (his voice cracks)
          Welcome home.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      19.
 
 
                         SANDMAN
          What happened here?
 
Lucien takes a breath. Wipes the tears from his eyes.
 
                         LUCIEN
          What happened? You are the incarnation of 
          this dreamtime, Lord. With you gone, the 
          place ... it started to crumble ...
 
He takes off his spectacles, cleans them.
 
                         LUCIEN (CONT'D)
          I was aware of it in my Library. Slowly, 
          the words began to fade. Some time after 
          you vanished, my books became volumes of 
          blank paper. The next day the whole 
          library was gone.
                  (puts on his glasses)
          I never found it again.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I'm sorry, Lucien.
 
                         LUCIEN
          I ... I tried, sir. I did my best. We all 
          did.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Let's see how it is, then.
 
 
INT.  DREAM REALM - SANDMAN'S PALACE - HALLWAY - DUSK
 
Sandman moves through the ruined palace, around fallen 
columns and past broken statues.
 
                         LUCIEN
                  (a sad fact)
          Most of the palace servants turned back 
          into the dream stuff you made them with -- 
 
                         MATTHEW (O.S.)
          He's back? He's really back?
 
A WILD FLAPPING SOUND and a sleek black raven -- MATTHEW 
streaks down, hovers in front of Sandman.
 
                         MATTHEW
          Where have you BEEN? Are you all right? 
          What happened?
 
                         SANDMAN
          I was detained.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      20.
 
 
                         MATTHEW
          Ha. Detained. You haven't changed, that's 
          good news.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Nor have you, Matthew.
 
Sandman surveys the devastation.
 
                         MATTHEW
          It's a pisser, ain't it?
 
                         LUCIEN
          It hurts me, too, lord.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Hurts, yes ... Some power returns to me, 
          simply by being here. But I placed too 
          much of myself in my tools. And they are 
          gone.
 
He sits down on a broken marble stair.
 
                         SANDMAN (CONT'D)
          I wonder ... I wonder if it is all even 
          worth rebuilding.
 
Matthew speaks an aside to Lucien, not all that quietly:
 
                         MATTHEW
          Hell, I wonder if he can.
 
Lucien shoots Matthew a scolding look.
 
                         LUCIEN
          My Lord -- some things you should know, 
          items that need attention right away. 
          Many of the nightkind are missing. Lesser 
          dreams. And ... 
                  (he swallows)
          One of the major nightmares.
 
Sandman cocks an eyebrow, waiting. Lucien doesn't like being 
the messenger.
 
                         LUCIEN (CONT'D)
          The Corinthian. Escaped into the waking 
          world, I'm afraid.
 
Sandman turns away. Before him is his reflection in a cracked 
mirror, hanging askew on a wall. He looks up into his own 
eyes a moment, then away -- and in the mirror, we get a 
glimpse of a fat, gray face -- DESPAIR.
 
                         SANDMAN
          How long?
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      21.
 
 
                         LUCIEN
          Twenty years.
 
                         SANDMAN
          There is no telling the harm he may have 
          caused in that time.
                  (beat)
          I blame myself. Had I been here, 
          fulfilling my function ...
 
                         MATTHEW
          Aww ... it wasn't your fault, boss.
 
                         SANDMAN
          No? Then whose?
                  (beat)
          And, in my absence, how much further 
          havoc has been visited upon the waking 
          world?
 
 
INT.  STANFORD RESEARCH CLINIC - NIGHT
 
FACES of SLEEPING PEOPLE, as seen on a row of black-and-white 
video monitors. Cheap public-sector equipment -- out of date, 
out of focus, one of the screens flipping endlessly. Below 
each monitor EKGs slowly churn out reams of graph paper.
 
A DOCTOR moves down the line, checking the readouts with 
professional indifference.
 
ON SCREEN: A man sleeps peacefully -- his name is PAUL - and 
then his legs twitch spasmodically, stop. A piece of masking 
tape is hand-labeled 'PLMS/nocturnal myoclonus.' NEXT SCREEN: 
An ELDERLY MAN begins thrashing in bed, SCREAMING, pulling 
out electrodes. His eyes are open but he sees nothing.
 
                         DOCTOR
                  (checks his watch)
          Patient seventeen, night terror episode 
          at eleven-oh-five.
 
The Doctor expects a response, doesn't get it. He turns, 
glances down the line -- where an ASSISTANT studies the 
length of an EKG read-out, engrossed.
 
                         DOCTOR
          Did you get that?
 
                         ASSISTANT
                  (re: the read-out)
          It's gotta be some kind of record. Three 
          day observation program, and she's never 
          made it past a level 2 sleep pattern. 
          Even then just for a few minutes.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      22.
 
 
The Doctor looks interested for the first time, comes over, 
leaving patient seventeen behind, still SCREAMING.
 
                         DOCTOR
          Three days without REM sleep? She should 
          see things crawling the walls by now. 
 
                         ASSISTANT
          No sign of hallucinations. 
          She's part of the benzodiazepine study 
          ...
 
                         DOCTOR
          What's her name?
 
ON SCREEN: is a WOMAN, lovely, her face relaxed in the 
peaceful beauty of sleep -- but here eyes are wide open, 
staring enigmatically INTO CAMERA, unblinking. 
 
                         ASSISTANT (O.S.)
          Rose Walker.
 
 
INT.  STANFORD RESEARCH CLINIC - ROOM - DAY
 
ROSE WALKER, dressed, quickly packs a few items into an 
overnight bag. The Doctor appears in the doorway. He turns an 
envelope in his hands.
 
                         DOCTOR
          We do appreciate your participation, Miss 
          Walker. Um, if we could persuade you, 
          we'd like to have you back for an 
          individual --
 
                         ROSE
                  (cuts him off)
          Yeah, yeah, I know. Lemme guess. I'm 
          special. You've never seen anything like 
          me. You want to run blood tests and do a 
          night-time polysomnogram.  Maybe you'll 
          do a daytime multiple sleep latency test. 
          You'll find that my condition is non-
          respiratory, and not stress induced. 
          You'll find my eye muscles lack tone 
          because my REM sleep is so rare, but you 
          won't know why.
                  (beat)
          Is that the check?
 
                         DOCTOR
          Yes --
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      23.
 
 
Rose plucks it from his hands. She slings her overnight bag 
over her shoulder.
 
                         ROSE
          Look, no offense, but ... I've been 
          monitored and studied and hooked up to 
          wires since I was ten. If I thought there 
          was any chance that you guys could get me 
          a good night's sleep, I'd take you up on 
          it. But --
 
She shrugs. A wave of the envelope, and she's gone.
 
 
EXT.  STANFORD RESEARCH CLINIC - DAY
 
The envelope is torn open; Rose examines the check.
 
                         PAUL (O.S.)
          How'd you do?
 
PAUL -- who we met briefly, a patient in the sleep center -- 
has been waiting. He wears a clean denim shirt, and one of 
those wispy goatees favored by sensitive-artist types.
 
                         ROSE
          It'll get me through another semester. 
          You?
 
                         PAUL
          Same. Walk you home?
 
                         ROSE
          ... sure.
 
Paul notes the reluctance in her voice.
 
                         PAUL
          Listen, Rose ... I'm sorry I ... Sorry 
          that ...
 
Rose glances at him from under raised eyebrows, a smile 
playing across her lips.
 
                         ROSE
          Yes, Paul..?
 
                         PAUL
          That I couldn't talk to you ... after the 
          other night.  
 
                         ROSE
          Paul ... don't worry about it. We just 
          had some kind of emotional meltdown and 
          we ended up in bed. It's been known to 
          happen.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      24.
 
 
EXT.  BART STATION - DAY
 
Commuters exit the BART station. Rose and Paul pause, pull 
skateboards from their bags. They ride expertly downhill, 
winding in and out of the pedestrians.
 
 
EXT.  SAN FRANCISCO HILLS - DAY 
 
Skateboards in hand, Rose and Paul trudge up a steep hill.
 
                         PAUL
          I really wasn't looking for, uh, you 
          know. I was just ... I've been blocked 
          for so long, and you listen so easy.
                  (beat)
          I was afraid that I'd, I don't know, 
          seduced you --
 
Rose laughs. Paul looks hurt.
 
                         ROSE
          I'm a grown woman, Paul ... and the whole 
          tormented artist thing is not nearly as 
          attractive as tormented artists think it 
          is.
                  (trying to ease his conscience)
          Look, this was just one of those things. 
          One of those bells that occasionally 
          rings ...
 
They reach the top of the hill.
 
                         PAUL
          A trip to the moon on gossamer wings?
 
                         ROSE
          Just one of those things.
 
She sets her board down, pushes off --
 
 
EXT.  ROSE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY
 
Brownstones converted into low-cost apartments. The tenants 
are young, struggling: students, artists, coffee-house 
employees -- sometimes all three at once.
 
Rose arrives at her entrance, Paul close behind. He looks 
uncomfortable. Rose packs her skateboard.
 
                         PAUL
          Hey ... let's go have lunch.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      25.
 
 
                         ROSE
          I'm sorry -- I've got too much to deal 
          with in my life right now. Okay?
 
Paul looks even more uncomfortable.
 
                         PAUL
          I was thinking ... just, maybe we should 
          talk some more? 
 
                         ROSE
          Paul, no.
 
                         PAUL
          Rose --
 
Rose shoots him a look -- she's had enough. Paul sees it.
 
                         PAUL
          Okay. The truth of the matter is, I know 
          all we're going to be is great friends --
                  (can't help smiling)
          But right now, everybody in your whole 
          building is up with your roommate putting 
          together a surprise birthday party for 
          you, and it's up to me to keep you away 
          from there for the next two hours.
 
Rose is completely shocked. She glances toward her apartment.
 
                         ROSE
          Really?
 
                         PAUL
          Uh-huh. Act surprised, okay?
 
                         ROSE
          Okay ... 
                  (back at Paul)
          So, um ... pals, then?
 
Paul regards her ... they smile. An understanding reached.
 
                         PAUL
          Pals. For now.
                  (off her look)
          And probably forever. But I just don't 
          like saying 'never.' 
 
                         ROSE
          Okay. Deal. After all, no one knows their 
          own destiny, right?
 
CLOSE ON: The parchment PAGE of massive book. In beautiful 
illuminated script it reads:
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      26.
 
 
				"After all, no one knows their own destiny, right?"
    Rose said.
 
				In Destiny's Garden, Destiny closed his
    book and went to his gallery.
 
The huge tome is SHUT. It is chained to the wrist of -- 
 
DESTINY. Oldest of the Endless. Tall, wearing a hooded 
cassock. We are -- 
 
 
EXT.  DESTINY'S GARDEN - TWILIGHT
 
Destiny moves through his Garden at a measured pace, 
assuredly as a blind man in his own familiar home. Perhaps he 
is blind, as we do not see his eyes, hidden in shadow.
 
The garden is all Greek columns, statues and sweeping 
archways. Paths that diverge and branch, fork and divide. 
Tall hedge mazes immaculately cut -- 
 
But Destiny knows his way, walking amid the sounds of 
silence. He leaves no footprints. And casts no shadow.
 
 
INT.  DESTINY'S GARDEN - CITADEL - TWILIGHT
 
Destiny moves slowly, dwarfed by the high-ceilinged hallway. 
Beyond, chambers lead into many rooms and further chambers. 
He turns a corner, disappears into SHADOW -- 
 
 
INT.  DESTINY'S GARDEN - CITADEL - GALLERY - TWILIGHT
 
Six portraits hang on the wall, all painted in romantic 
style, all the subjects garbed in eighteenth-century fashion.
 
Destiny stops in front of the first painting -- an ornately-
framed oil portrait of Death, she in an elegant pose. Destiny 
speaks, his voice dry as dust:
 
                         DESTINY
          Sister. I stand in my Gallery, and I 
          summon the family to me. It is I, Destiny 
          of the Endless, who calls you.
                  (beat)
          Come.
 
Death EMERGES from out of her portrait, into the hallway. She 
is her usual sunny self, casually dressed.
 
                         DEATH
          Hiya, big brother. What's up?
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      27.
 
 
                         DESTINY
          I am calling a conclave of the Endless, 
          Sister. Do you not feel you should be 
          more appropriately attired?
 
Death pouts ... then spins, and is suddenly wearing a turn-of-
the-century satin dress, black leather boots, black silk 
gloves. The effect is at once wild and elegant.
 
                         DEATH
          Satisfied?
 
Destiny moves to the next portrait. He does not look at her.
 
                         DESTINY
          Yes. I am satisfied.
                  (to the portrait)
          Sibling, I stand in my Gallery, and I 
          call you ... 
 
DESIRE steps out from the portrait. Perfectly symmetrical, 
perfectly androgynous features. Her (or his) skin is pale as 
smoke, his (or her) eyes tawny and sharp as yellow wine. 
Desire smiles in brief flashes, like moonlight glinting from 
a knife-edge.
 
She (or he) is formally dressed: black corset, panties, 
garters and stockings. Desire looks around, taking the place 
in.
 
                         DESIRE
                  (to Dream)
          I see he hasn't redecorated in the last 
          three hundred years. So what's the 
          occasion?
 
                         DESPAIR
          Destiny will tell us that in his own 
          time, Desire. He won't be rushed ... 
 
DESPAIR emerges from her portrait, a heavy woman, naked, 
rolls of fat weighting her down. Grey eyes that narrow to 
tiny points.
 
                         DESIRE
          I see you dressed for the occasion, 
          Despair.
 
                         DEATH
          Shush. Be nice. It's been years since the 
          family was together.
 
Destiny passes a conspicuous gap where another painting may 
have hung. The next portrait is of a young girl, smiling, 
holding flowers in a summer field.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      28.
 
 
                         DESTINY
          Sister Delirium. Youngest of the Endless. 
          I stand in my Gallery, and I call you -- 
 
DELIRIUM steps into the Gallery -- looking not all like her 
portrait. Orange hair, her fishnet stockings tattered. One 
eye is vivid emerald green, spattered with silver flecks that 
move; her other eye is vein blue. Who knows what Delirium 
sees through her mismatched eyes?
 
                         DEATH
          Hi, sis. How are you doing?
 
                         DELIRIUM
          uh. YesterDAY i did SomE really BAD 
          stuff. I meaN REal bad. YOU know.
                  (beat)
          but TOdAY i DiD some GOOD things. I don't 
          knoW -- 
 
                         DESTINY
          Hush, little sister. There is one more to 
          be summoned.
 
At the end of the gallery is the portrait of Sandman, dressed 
in the finery of the 17th century. Destiny pauses in front of 
it --
 
 
INT.  DESTINY'S GARDEN - CITADEL - MAIN HALL - TWILIGHT
 
Sandman,  dressed as he was painted, sits at a seven-sided 
table. The Endless gathered around. Destiny stands behind his 
chair. There is one extra chair, standing empty.
 
                         DESTINY
          You know why I have called this family 
          meeting.
 
                         DESPAIR
          Brother Dream is back.
                  (glances at the empty chair)
          I thought you had gone for good.
 
                         DESIRE
          Abandoned his realm, abandoned his 
          responsibilities ... 
 
                         SANDMAN
          I had no choice in the matter.
 
                         DELIRIUM
          DesTiNY couLD hAVe Told yOu WHAT was 
          ComINg. BUT he wouLdn't 'cAUse he's meAN.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      29.
 
 
                         DESTINY
          I could not turn that page until it was 
          time for the turning. But I can tell you 
          what has occurred in your absence.
 
                         DESIRE
          Oh, do. This could be fun.
 
Sandman gestures for Destiny to continue.
 
                         DESTINY
          The dreams of men became chaotic. One 
          man's dream could infect thousands. 
          Dreams of freedom, of subjugation, dreams 
          of equality, dreams of death. Dark or 
          light made no matter, if the dreamer 
          strong enough.
 
Delirium pays no attention. Bright butterflies emanate from 
her fingertips.
 
                         DELIRIUM
          i juST made butter-flies. LOOK, 
          everyBody! LOOk at whaT I just DiD ... 
 
                         DESTINY
          Brother Dream. You must decide. Will you 
          repair your kingdom, and return to your 
          throne? 
 
                         SANDMAN
          I am not sure that I am needed. Or that I 
          wish to resume my mantle.
 
Desire leans forward.
 
                         DESIRE
          I could make you wish to.
 
Sandman frowns.
 
                         DESIRE
          I am Desire, am I not? Where I touch, 
          things want and need and love, drawn like 
          butterflies to a candle-flame.
 
                         DESPAIR
          You mean moths.
 
Desire's smile widens.
 
                         DESIRE
          Butterflies.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      30.
 
 
One of Delirium's butterflies lands on a candle flame. It 
BURNS quickly, writhing, leaving only colored smoke. The 
image is at once repellent and beautiful.
 
                         DELIRIUM
          thoSe Were MINE. you didn't HaVe to do 
          thAT!
 
                         DESPAIR
          We should not argue. We should not fight.
 
Sandman looks across the table at Death.
 
                         SANDMAN
          You have been quiet, sister. What say 
          you?
 
                         DEATH
          What say I? Well, I'll tell you. And I'm 
          only going to say it once, so you'd 
          better pay attention.
 
She rises and comes around the table to him. He waits
 
                         DEATH (CONT'D)
          You are utterly the stupidest, most self-
          centered, appallingest excuse for an 
          anthropomorphic personification on this 
          or any other plane.
 
She sits on the table beside him.
 
                         DEATH (CONT'D)
          What we do aren't just responsibilities. 
          These aren't just jobs. We didn't answer 
          ads in the classifieds because we wanted 
          the health care. Destiny, Desire, Death -- 
          this is what we are. And you -- are 
          Dream.
 
Her stern attitude fades, and she takes his hand.
 
                         DEATH (CONT'D)
          I'm glad you're back. I was worried about 
          you.
 
She kisses his cheek, then moves back to her chair. 
 
Sandman rubs his forehead ... decides.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I will repair my kingdom. To do so I must 
          recover my tools of power: Pouch, Helm, 
          and Ruby.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      31.
 
 
                         DESTINY
                  (nods)
          The path is chosen, then.
 
                         SANDMAN
          But I don't know where they are. Brother, 
          could you ..?
 
Destiny does not respond, but pulls his book closer.
 
                         SANDMAN (CONT'D)
          No. Of course not. Sisters, can you be of 
          any assistance?
 
He's addressing Desire, Delirium and Despair, who are grouped 
together -- a tableau of Mother, Maiden and Crone.
 
                         SANDMAN
          My pouch of sand, which controls dreams. 
          Do any of you have knowledge of it?
 
                         DELIRIUM
          i kNow! I KNoW! TheRe's a WOman namED 
          Rachel -- she haS IT! BuT I don'T KNoW 
          where SHe is. NeiTHeR doeS ShE.
 
Delirium shuts her mismatched eyes, furrows her brow. When 
she opens her eyes again, they are both BLUE.
 
                         DELIRIUM
          Rachel remembers another: Rose Walker. 
          Perhaps she can lead you to your pouch.
                  (rubs her temples)
          It hurts me to be this way.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Then stop.
 
Delirium's eyes shift back to one green, one blue.
 
                         DELIRIUM
          DesTINy? I'm SORry. I didn't MEaN to calL 
          you meAn. I mean, i meant to, bUt I 
          dIdn't MEAN it whEN I meant To.
 
                         DESTINY
          I know.
 
Delirium smiles.
 
                         SANDMAN
          My Dreamstone, my Ruby Moonstone, which 
          can alter the fabric of reality. Where is 
          it?
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      32.
 
 
Desire seems to enjoy answering.
 
                         DESIRE
          A very desirable item, hm? Stolen from a 
          king by a mage, stolen from a mage by a 
          thief. And that's the last I know of it.
                  (a knife's-edge smile)
          Sorry.
 
Sandman scowls. Then turns to Despair.
 
                         SANDMAN
          And my helm of office, which protects me 
          between realms?
 
                         DESPAIR
          It was traded to a demon long ago. It now 
          abides in Hell. I am too familiar with 
          that place.
 
Sandman does not like this news. 
 
                         SANDMAN
          Thank you.
 
He rises, leaves the table.
 
 
EXT.  DESTINY'S CITADEL - TWILIGHT
 
Sandman stands on a balcony looking out over Destiny's 
garden. Death joins him.
 
                         SANDMAN
          My ruby is missing. And I am not strong 
          enough to face a single demon, let alone 
          the hordes of hell.
 
                         DEATH
          So ... the pouch?
 
                         SANDMAN
          Yes. My sister, I pray you tell our 
          siblings that I was needed elsewhere, and 
          I could not stay.
 
He kisses her hand, and starts to fade away.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Adieu.
 
He's gone. Death bites her lip.
 
                         DEATH
          Great. Now I get to worry about him some 
          more ...
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      33.
 
 
EXT.  ALEXANDER'S YACHT - EVENING
 
A 150-foot white yacht, sleek, huge engines, built for speed 
and show, a testament to ego rather than seaworthiness. 
Anchored far away from shore. Silent and dark, save for 
lights in the galley and a forward cabin.
 
 
INT.  ALEXANDER'S YACHT - GALLEY - EVENING
 
Plush and elegant. Long center table, huge refrigerator. 
Quiet, cavernous and empty. A door opens --
 
It's ALEXANDER BURGESS. No longer the 'young' Burgess, he's 
in his fifties, now -- and looks older. Silk robe pajamas, 
unkempt hair, shuffling along, he is a shocking contrast to 
the opulence of his ship.
 
CLOSE ON: a tray, as Alexander carefully places five celery 
sticks in line. Each celery stick is exactly the same length.
 
 
INT.  ALEXANDER' YACHT - CAPTAIN'S CABIN - EVENING
 
Alexander pushes into the cabin, carrying the tray. A huge 
bed, marble and wood appointments -- this is a yacht Donald 
Trump might have owned.
 
On the bed is the body of a muscular young man. Dead.
 
                         ALEXANDER
          Carlos ... ?
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Alexander Burgess, I presume.
 
The Corinthian is standing to one side of the door. Alexander 
drops the tray, reaches into his robe, draws a gun from a 
holster at his side --
 
The Corinthian moves swiftly, a single blow --
 
Alexander crumples to the deck, and SCREEN FADES TO BLACK.
 
 
INT.  ALEXANDER'S YACHT - CAPTAIN'S CABIN - EVENING
 
FADE UP: CLOSE ON ALEXANDER, lying where he fell. His eyes 
open -- slightly. He shifts his eyes only, glancing around.
 
POV ALEXANDER -- he sees the Corinthian, moving about the 
cabin, searching. Photos on the walls show scenes from huge 
and decadent parties -- liquor, drugs, beautiful women, 
powerful men. The Corinthian looks at them, shakes his head.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
                  (to himself)
          Oh my, such decadence.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      34.
 
 
He moves past, examines an empty wall. Lingers there.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Dear Alexander ... you spent a lot of 
          time here, didn't you? It stinks of worry 
          ...
 
He glances at a trail we can't see.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          You've worn a path. And stood here for 
          long periods of time ...
 
He reaches up -- a hidden switch behind a bookcase slides 
back a section of marble, revealing a safe. Without looking:
 
                         CORINTHIAN
                  (to Alexander)
          Get up! You've been awake for the past 
          two minutes. Your breathing betrays you.
 
Alexander opens his eyes, struggles to sitting. He begins to 
weep -- not in terror, but in resignation. He wipes his eyes 
with both hands.
 
                         ALEXANDER
          I knew ... it had to happen.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Yes, well ... you shouldn't have written 
          the book. Led me right to you.
 
He flings a book off the shelf down in front of Alexander. 
'LORD MAGUS: The Truths of Roderick Burgess' by Alexander 
Burgess. Alexander looks at it.
 
                         ALEXANDER
          Stupid. But I had to ... to ...
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Pay penance? Set the record straight? 
          Make a fortune off the movie sale?
 
Alexander laughs mirthlessly.
 
                         ALEXANDER
          Hardly. You're probably the only one 
          whose ever read the damn thing.
                  (beat)
          Want me to sign it?
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          No.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      35.
 
 
                         ALEXANDER
          The Ruby.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Yes.
 
Alexander stands, moves to the safe.
 
                         ALEXANDER
          Is Carlos dead?
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Yes. Your lover?
 
Alexander works the dial.
 
                         ALEXANDER
                  (shakes his head)
          Pilot and body guard. I haven't had much 
          interest in lovers -- male or female -- 
          in a long time. Although I had my share 
          of both, once ...
 
He pulls the safe open. It is empty, save for SANDMAN'S RUBY, 
set on a velvet pad. He takes it out.
 
                         ALEXANDER
          This gave them to me. It gave me 
          everything I ever desired ...
 
                         CORINTHIAN
                  (mock tragic)
          Except the one thing you ever really 
          wanted. Your father's love.
 
Alexander makes a fist around the Ruby. Hurls it at the 
Corinthian -- who makes an effortless one-handed catch. He 
holds it up to the light, then pockets it. Draws his knife.
 
                         ALEXANDER
          You're going to kill me now?
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          I believe so.
 
                         ALEXANDER
          With a knife. How prosaic.
                  (a bitter laugh)
          I bought the yacht for safety. Open 
          water, supposed to guard against magic 
          attack.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Your father was right, Alexander. You are 
          an idiot.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      36.
 
 
Alexander winces. The Corinthian moves to Carlos' body, turns 
the corpse's head. He works his knife as he speaks.
 
                         CORINTHIAN (CONT'D)
          You had the Ruby Moonstone of the King of 
          Dreams. Reality itself in your sway. And 
          all you could do was feed your callow 
          little hungers.
 
He holds up his prize: AN EYEBALL. He lifts it to his face -- 
we think he may eat it. With his free hand, he reaches up to 
remove his sunglasses --
 
                         CORINTHIAN (CONT'D)
          Not that I take issue with indulging 
          pleasures ... 
 
Alexander gasps at what is revealed behind the Corinthian's 
sunglasses.
 
CLOSE ON: THE CORINTHIAN'S MOUTH. He brings the eyeball 
closer --
 
-- and past, up, out of frame. EVEN AS HE SPEAKS (CLEARLY), 
WE HEAR THE SOUNDS OF CHEWING --
 
                         CORINTHIAN (CONT'D)
          But you never understood how to truly use 
          the Stone. You had the power to change 
          the whole world. And you wasted it.
 
Alexander is stricken. His knees buckle. He slumps to the 
floor. And then we see what he has seen:
 
The Corinthian's eye sockets DO NOT HAVE EYES -- instead, 
they are both MOUTHS, filled with SHARP TEETH. When he 
speaks, all three of his mouths speak -- three voices, 
overdubbed.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          But that's pretty much true of all you 
          mortals, isn't it?
 
He brings his bloody knife up, and advances.
 
                         ALEXANDER
          Who are you?
 
                         CORINTHIAN
                  (melodramatic)
          I'm your worst nightmare. I'm --
                  (shrugs, smiles)
          That's it. Your worst nightmare.
 
He LAUGHS --
 
                                                      CUT TO:
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      37.
 
 
EXT.  OCEAN - EVENING
 
The Corinthian, sunglasses back on, pilots the yacht's launch 
across the bay. 
 
He takes the Ruby from his pocket, holds it up, looking 
through it at the city.
 
POV - THROUGH THE RUBY. Everything is tinted red. And as the 
Corinthian turns the Ruby, its facets distort the city, 
distort reality ...
 
CLOSE ON - A DOZEN smiling PARTY-GOERS as they yell --
 
                         PARTY-GOERS
          SURPRISE!
 
Rose's eyes widen, and she looks appropriately surprised; we 
are --
 
INT.  ROSE'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
 
A banner reads 'Happy Birthday, Rose.' The party-goers, 
mostly tenants, crowd forward. A cake with one big candle on 
it is proffered; Rose blows it out, pushes through, Paul 
behind her.
 
Among the guests are: KELLY, a chubby young woman with a good 
heart; SAMANTHA, who smokes too many French cigarettes.
 
                         KELLY
          Were you surprised?
 
                         ROSE
                  (a la Roz Russell)
          I'm a cynical old woman now. Nothin' 
          surprises me.
 
Samantha holds up a little white KITTEN.
 
                         ROSE
                  (a mercurial change)
          Oh -- oh, look at it! Is it mine?
 
                         SAMANTHA
          Happy birthday, Rose.
 
Rose takes the Kitten, pets it, coos to it.
 
                         SAMANTHA (CONT'D)
          I thought you needed something in your 
          life cute and warm and fuzzy and 
          demanding, and I didn't know any men, so 
          ...
 
                         KELLY
          I wasn't sure you'd like it -- 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      38.
 
 
                         ROSE
          No, no ... it's perfect. Purr-fect. I 
          love it.
 
                         KELLY
          She needs a name.
 
                         ROSE
          It's a she? That's easy. Her name's 
          'Dinah.'
 
She moves away, kitten clinging to her shoulder.
 
                         KELLY
          Dinah?
 
                         SAMANTHA
          Oh -- like in Alice in Wonderland. You 
          know Rose ...
 
Other partygoers wish Rose happy birthday, pet the kitty. 
Rose smiles to everyone, thanking them, moving through the 
crowd --
 
 
INT.  ROSE'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - LATER
 
Tired, Rose collapses into a chair. The kitten burrows behind 
her neck. Someone offers a glass of wine --
 
Paul. Rose takes it from him. Smiles.
 
                         ROSE
          So ... can I at least imagine I inspired 
          you and you were able to get back to 
          work?
 
                         PAUL
          I wish. No, still blocked. I haven't 
          painted in ... months, is it months? 
          Shit. And you know about the sleep 
          trouble. I've been having this weird 
          dream ...
 
Kelly, questing for snacks, overhears this last.
 
                         KELLY
          A weird dream? You gotta tell Sam ... 
          she's a nut for this stuff. Sam, come 
          here!
                  (Sam joins them)
          He's going to tell us a dream.
 
                         SAMANTHA
          Ragin'. So tell.
 
Paul hesitates -- it really wasn't for everybody to hear, but 
now he's on the spot.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      39.
 
 
                         PAUL
          I dreamt I was climbing a rock face, this 
          sheer, like, spire --and I hate to climb. 
          I hate high places in general. I'm an 
          artist, and I don't even open my windows 
          to look at the view --
 
                         KELLY
          The dream ..?
 
                         PAUL
          Right. So I'm climbing, and I've reached 
          the top.
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - ROCKY SPIRE - DAY
 
It's Paul's dream: A finger of stone pushes its way into a 
pale blue sky. At the pinnacle, Paul maintains a perilous 
hold, his face white with terror.
 
                         PAUL (CONT'D) (V.O.)
          I can't go higher. I can't climb all the 
          way back down. And I can't let go. I 
          can't fall.
 
 
INT.  ROSE'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
 
Remembering, Paul speaks nervously -- he's genuinely 
troubled.
 
                         PAUL (CONT'D)
          I just can't. Because if you fall in a 
          dream, and you hit the ground -- you die. 
          Right?
 
                         KELLY
          I think that's just an old wives' tale.
 
                         SAMANTHA
          I tend to trust old wives.
 
                         PAUL
          So ... ah ... I figure it's about being 
          blocked. Right?
 
                         SAMANTHA
          It sounds like an anxiety dream.
 
                         KELLY
          It always sounds like an anxiety dream to 
          you. Unless it's a sex dream.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      40.
 
 
                         ROSE
          What if you dream about being anxious 
          about sex?
 
                         KELLY
          Is that what you dream about?
 
Rose is suddenly uncomfortable.
 
                         ROSE
          I don't dream. Never have.
 
                         SAMANTHA
          You mean you don't remember.
 
Rose takes a drink, looks away, and spots --
 
SANDMAN. Wearing a plain leather jacket, giving the party a 
detached once-over. The guests flow around him, seemingly 
unaware of his presence.
 
                         SAMANTHA (O.S.)
                  (to Paul)
          So this spire ... basically long, and 
          phallic? And you're clinging to it, huh?
 
Curious, Rose moves toward Sandman -- almost drawn to him.
 
                         PAUL (O.S.)
          Whoa, wait a second --
 
Rose gazes speculatively at Sandman. She scoops up a Chinese 
fortune cookie from a snack bowl. Steps forward, startling 
him.
 
                         ROSE
          Hi. So are you being lonely or just 
          aloof?
 
Sandman glances around for the person she is addressing -- 
then realizes it must be him.
 
                         SANDMAN
          You noticed me?
 
                         ROSE
          Yeah ... it wasn't hard. I looked behind 
          the philodendron, and there you were.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I am not usually noticed unless I wish to 
          be.
 
Rose quickly realizes he's a weirdo, decides to bail.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      41.
 
 
                         ROSE
                  (turning away)
          Ah ... okay, Ninja-boy. Well, have fun 
          lurking.
 
Sandman catches her arm.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Wait. I require your assistance.
 
                         ROSE
          My assistance ..?
 
                         SANDMAN
          I am searching for a possession of mine. 
          A leather pouch, full of sand.
 
Rose looks afraid. She knows what he's talking about, but 
wishes she didn't.
 
                         ROSE
          A pouch ..?
 
                         SANDMAN
          A woman named Rachel stole it. I want it 
          back.
 
                         ROSE
          Then go get it. And leave me the hell 
          alone.
 
She pulls away from him. She crosses to a window, and climbs 
out, onto the fire escape.
 
 
EXT.  ROSE'S APARTMENT - FIRE ESCAPE - NIGHT
 
Rose nuzzles the kitten. A beat, and then Sandman moves to 
beside her -- although he did not seem to come out the 
window.
 
                         SANDMAN
          My sister did not know the woman's 
          location, nor am I able to sense the 
          pouch. Do you know where she is?
 
Rose's words spill out, the venom unmistakable:
 
                         ROSE
          Rachel ... is my mother. My mother the 
          junkie. 
          She was stoned when I was conceived, she 
          was stoned when I was born, she was 
          stoned ... she is always stoned. The 
          state finally took me away.
                         (more)
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      42.
 
 
                         ROSE (CONT'D)
          I hear from her once in a while --
          when she remembers she maybe had a kid
          somewhere.
                  (a bitter laugh)
          Happy birthday.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Then you do know where she is.
 
                         ROSE
          I know where she was a year ago.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Take me to her. I will grant you a boon.
 
Rose stares at him -- this is absurd.
 
                         ROSE
          A boon?
 
                         SANDMAN
          Yes.
 
                         ROSE
          Like a gift? Like in a fairy tale? That 
          kind of boon?
 
                         SANDMAN
          Yes. I am Dream, of the Endless. I am the 
          Master of Dreams. If it is within my 
          power, you shall have it.
 
Rose's expression is one of surprise -- but not quite 
disbelief.
 
                         SANDMAN
          And ... I need your help.
 
Rose is skeptical -- but she is considering it.
 
                         SANDMAN (CONT'D)
                  (a single, desperate syllable)
          Please.
 
Rose softens -- he is in genuine need. 
 
                         ROSE
          This is too weird. My mother ...
 
She looks down at the fortune cookie in her hand. Looks up at 
Sandman, into his eyes. They gaze at each other a moment, and 
something passes between them. Understanding. Trust.
 
Rose's mouth curls in a sly smile. Cracks the fortune cookie, 
extracts the fortune. Reads it. Shakes her head.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      43.
 
 
                         ROSE
                  (reading the fortune)
          'Be open to new experiences.'
 
She looks again at Sandman. Sighs.
 
                         ROSE
          All right. We really don't get to choose 
          these things, do we? I'll take you there.
 
Sandman nods gratefully.
 
                         ROSE
          But that doesn't mean I believe you. What 
          a line. The Master of Dreams. Yeah, 
          right.
 
 
EXT.  RACHEL'S HOUSE - NIGHT
 
A very bad neighborhood. A taxi screeches away from the curb. 
Sandman stands on the sidewalk, Rose beside him.
 
The house is one step above condemned. Tall brown weeds and 
broken windows, flaking paint and decaying siding.
 
                         SANDMAN
          The pouch is here.
 
                         ROSE
          How do you know?
 
                         SANDMAN
          I know.
 
Rose steps up to the house, rings the bell. Checks the front 
door. Locked.
 
                         ROSE
          We can go around back and break a window 
          or something -- 
 
                         SANDMAN
          No. We go in by the front door.
 
Sandman gestures. A CLICK is heard, and the door opens 
slightly. Rose looks at Sandman in astonishment. 
 
                         ROSE
          Don't tell me you did that. That was 
          chance, right? Because if you did that 
          ... 
 
Sandman gestures for her to enter. She pushes the door -- 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      44.
 
 
INT.  RACHEL'S HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT
 
The door moves open slowly, pushing a large pile of mail 
before it -- magazines, letters, bills. Rose enters, frowns.
 
                         ROSE
          Six months worth of mail ... 
                  (calling, panicked)
          Ohmigod. Rachel? MOTHER?
 
She moves toward a stairway. Sandman stops her.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Rose. This place is not safe for you. 
          Things are free in this house that should 
          not be loose on earth.
 
She stares at him blankly, not really hearing him. She pulls 
away -- 
 
                         ROSE
          Don't give me any more of that crap. She 
          might be in trouble.
 
-- and is off, up the stairs.
 
 
INT.  RACHEL'S HOUSE - - TOP OF STAIRS - NIGHT
 
Rose slows her ascent. Before her, white CLOUDS obscure the 
second floor, tendrils of MIST curling down the stairway. 
 
Resolved, she steps into the mist. Looks down -- 
 
VERTIGO hits us as the clouds part. Below Rose is open sky, 
the city thousands of feet below. Rose FALLS -- 
 
 
EXT.  SKY - NIGHT
 
The WHITE NOISE sound of WIND as Rose free-falls, plummeting 
toward earth. Arms and legs spread, she watches, wide-eyed as 
the ground approaches. She SCREAMS -- 
 
 
EXT.  DELIRIUM'S REALM - INDETERMINATE
 
THE SCREEN CRACKS LIKE A MIRROR. Pieces of it fall away. Rose 
stands on a misty plane. Color, sound, creatures and words 
whirl around her violently.
 
This is DELIRIUM'S REALM. Delirium looks up at Rose.
 
                         DELIRIUM
          HavE yOu COme to viSIT my ReaLM? 
          GoodGooDGooDie. I Like comPAnY ...
                         (more)
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      45.
 
 
                         DELIRIUM (CONT'D)
          i LikE to be ALoNE, too. but NOt bY MYseLf.
 
Sandman's hand touches Rose's shoulder. He stands beside her.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Sister ... she is not yours.
 
                         DELIRIUM
          BRother! nOW we cAn aLL bE aLONe ThrEE at 
          A tiMe!
 
                         SANDMAN
          No, little one. Not now.
 
Delirium makes a face. Blows a lock of hair out of her face.
 
                         DELIRIUM
          Um. OkaY.
 
 
INT.  RACHEL'S HOUSE - TOP OF STAIRS - NIGHT
 
The clouds, mist, and realm are gone. Sandman stands behind 
Rose, close to her, holding her.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Rose. You're here.
 
Rose, shaking, hangs onto Sandman. Takes in her surroundings.
 
                         ROSE
          Uh. ... so real. I thought I saw ... You 
          were there. A dream -- like Paul's. It 
          was only a dream.
 
                         SANDMAN
          It is never 'only a dream,' Rose. Here 
          less than some other places.
 
He pushes open a door. The hallway beyond is black.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Follow, if you must. 
                  (offhand)
          Be careful. Stay away from the mouths.
 
                         ROSE
          What do you mean stay away from the -- ?
 
But he has already entered the hallway. She follows -- 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      46.
 
 
INT.  RACHEL'S HOUSE - HALLWAY - NIGHT
 
The scrape-whoosh of a cigarette lighter. Rose holds the 
flame aloft, gasps -- 
 
The flame lights a hellish scene: The walls are not smooth. 
DOZENS of grotesque, blood red FACES bulge from the walls and 
ceiling. Thin tentacle arms reach out, hands gripping hands 
from the other side, blocking their path. The faces SNEER, 
several speaking at once:
 
                         FACES
          Leave her. 
          Do not disturb.
          She is ours.
          We from hungry.
          Do not disturb us.
 
Rose shrinks back, looks around wildly.
 
                         ROSE
          Where is she? Mother!
 
The faces gnash teeth, lick drooling lips. They flow along 
the wall, some fading back, others pushing forward.
 
                         FACES
          Foolish foolish.
          Hear it posture?
          Hear it threaten?
          Foolish meat things.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Let us through.
 
Sandman's voice has instant effect. Some faces look 
surprised; others glance around warily.
 
                         FACES
          Who said?
          Who spoke?
          Not him.
          He's gone.
          All gone long gone.
 
                         SANDMAN
          This has gone far enough. You have 
          exceeded your bounds.
 
The faces are already pulling back into the walls. Eyes 
lowered, contrite. A few are even scared. 
 
                         FACES
          Master?
          Do not chastise.
          Sorry sorry.
          We thought you long gone.
          Yes yes Master.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      47.
 
 
Sandman moves down the hall, the arms untangling before him. 
A disgusting meaty wet PLOP sound as the arms pull back into 
the walls.
 
Rose stares as the hallway becomes smooth, normal.
 
                         ROSE
          Dreams, right? Those were dreams. And you 
          really are their Master.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Yes.
 
                         ROSE
          Did you send them? Are you responsible 
          for this?
 
                         SANDMAN
          No.
 
Sandman pushes open the door at the end of the hall.
 
 
INT.  RACHEL'S HOUSE - RACHEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
 
Dimly lit. The SOUND of buzzing FLIES. Rachel's naked body 
lies sprawled, partially covered by a sheet, her appearance a 
shock: her skin is shriveled and decayed, several months 
beyond death. Her eyes are open, unseeing. 
 
Rose moves forward, recoils at the sight of her mother. She 
drops to one knee, sobbing at the foot of the bed.
 
CLOSE ON: Rachel, as her eyes flutter.
 
                         RACHEL
                  (a whisper)
          Hello?
 
Rose's eyes widen.
 
                         ROSE
          Oh no she's alive.
 
                         RACHEL
          Who's there? Oh!
                  (a ghastly smile)
          I dreamt I had a daughter, once. Such a 
          wonderful dream ... 
 
Rachel sits up. The sheet falls away from her shoulders. We 
wish it hadn't.
 
                         RACHEL
          Dream dream dreeeeam ... Whenever I want 
          to ... all I have to do is dreeeeeam ... 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      48.
 
 
The Pouch of sand lies on a night stand. Sandman picks it up. 
Squeezes it tight in his fist. He has reclaimed his first 
tool.
 
                         RACHEL
          No that's mine. Mine. Gimme ... 
 
Rachel lurches for the pouch -- Sandman simply takes a step 
back. She collapses face-first on the bed.
 
                         SANDMAN
                  (to Rose)
          I have the pouch. We can go now.
 
Rose stares at him in disbelief.
 
                         ROSE
          No.  You can't just take what you wanted 
          and go. You can't leave her like this.
 
Sandman regards Rachel, who writhes in the bed, humming, a 
dry, croaking sound.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Why not? The sand was the only thing 
          keeping her alive. She will die soon.
                  (an afterthought)
          Painfully, I would imagine.
 
He moves to the bedroom door. Rose stands.
 
                         ROSE
          I request my boon.
 
Sandman pauses.
 
                         ROSE
          For helping you. The boon you promised.
 
Sandman turns, eyes her -- an almost menacing look.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Yes?
 
                         ROSE
          Give her a ... merciful release from 
          this. Please. You can do that, can't you?
 
Sandman is surprised. His look softens. He reassesses her.
 
                         SANDMAN
          You could choose anything in the world. 
          And you choose to help her. Her, of all 
          people.
                         (more)
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      49.
 
 
                         SANDMAN (CONT'D)
                  (beat)
          I am ... impressed, Rose.
 
She meets his gaze. Again, that connection between them. He 
nods.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I will grant your desire, Rose. You must 
          leave the room.
 
Rose closes her eyes. Opens them, looks on her mother one 
last time. Turns, moves past Sandman, directly out the 
bedroom door.
 
CLOSE ON: Sandman's hand, as he sprinkles dream sand from his 
fingers. It falls -- 
 
-- turning into PETALS that land on Rachel's forehead. She is 
somehow young and healthy, now, lying back on green grass. 
More petals land. Rachel opens her eyes, smiles. We are:
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - GREEN HILLSIDE - DAY
 
The sun is shining. A young girl -- it must be Rose, as a 
child -- GIGGLES as she drops petals onto her sleeping 
mother. Rachel stands, alive and healthy. She laughs, starts 
to spin, arms flung outward. Rose spins with her, twirling -- 
 
 
INT.  RACHEL'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT
 
Rachel lies on the sheets, dead. Sandman pulls the covers up 
over her eyes. Pauses.
 
Suddenly Death leans into frame. She smiles sympathetically, 
whispers into Sandman's ear:
 
                         DEATH
          That was a lovely final dream you gave 
          her, little brother.
 
She leans out. There is the soft fluttering SOUND of WINGS. 
Then silence. Sandman is alone.
 
 
INT.  RACHEL'S HOUSE - HALLWAY - NIGHT
 
Rose waits. The bedroom door opens, and Sandman is there.
 
                         SANDMAN
          She died peacefully. She died happy.
 
                         ROSE
                  (flat)
          Yeah. Great. Thanks.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      50.
 
 
Sandman backs away from her. Rose sighs, looks up at him -- 
The hallway is empty. Sandman is gone.
 
 
EXT.  RACHEL'S HOUSE - NIGHT
 
Police cars and an ambulance crowd the street in front of 
Rachel's house. The ambulance (presumably with Rachel's body) 
pulls away.
 
Bystanders stand behind police tape. Rose sits in the back of 
a taxi. She gazes up at the house, lost in thought.
 
                         ROSE
                  (to herself)
          ... Mister Sandman, bring me a dream ... 
          make him the cutest ... that I've ever 
          seen ...
 
The taxi pulls forward, moves down the street.
 
 
INT.  JEWELRY SHOP - BACK ROOM - NIGHT
 
Several piles of GLITTERING cut DIAMONDS are strewn on a 
workbench. They sparkle in the glow of the overhead light.
 
A hulking FAT MAN lays out jeweler's tools on a blue velvet 
cloth. Babyish face, his hands seem dainty and too-small for 
his huge arms, his features tiny, lost in the mounds of fat. 
He calls himself FUNLAND.
 
There is a RAP on the metal side door. Funland moves quickly, 
expectantly. Pulls the door open. The Corinthian stands in 
the doorway. Extends his hand.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Funland, isn't it? Hi. The Corinthian. We 
          met online.
 
                         FUNLAND
                  (shakes his hand)
          Right ... wow, I can't believe it's 
          actually you ... wow. I thought you'd be 
          older --
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          My compliments to you on your BBS. Well 
          done. 
                  (looks beyond him)
          So we're all set, then? The tools?
 
                         FUNLAND
          Yeah. I, uh, got your e-mail --
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      51.
 
 
INT.  JEWELRY SHOP - BACK ROOM - NIGHT
 
The Corinthian sits at the workbench. Sandman's RUBY is in a 
small vice; the Corinthian peers at it through a magnifying 
light, measuring the stone.
 
Funland eats a whole Twinkie, washes it down with a swig of 
Jolt Cola. He looks over the Corinthian's shoulder. Trying to 
act nonchalant.
 
                         FUNLAND
                  (a little proud)
          You know, I've got my own little thing 
          going. 
 
                         CORINTHIAN
                  (amused)
          Oh?
 
                         FUNLAND
          I've found my own special place. There's, 
          like, thousands of people. And there are 
          always beautiful little children 
          wandering off, getting lost. Always 
          pleased to see somebody friendly. 
 
The Corinthian murmurs as he makes an adjustment at the 
bench. He pulls out a page torn from a book, consults it.
 
                         FUNLAND (CONT'D)
          And quiet places to take them to, even in 
          the middle of the crowds. And what's 
          great is, the people who run the place 
          always hush it up. They don't want anyone 
          to know that I'm there either. They want 
          everybody to be happy. Just like me.
 
The Corinthian CUTS, fashioning the gem into a NEW SHAPE. 
 
                         FUNLAND (CONT'D)
                  (dreamy)
          It's a wonderful place, my secret, 
          special place. And the other thing I 
          love, if you can't find any beautiful 
          children to play with, you can always go 
          on one of the rides. 
 
                         CORINTHIAN
                  (without looking up)
          How very pleasant.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      51.
 
 
                         FUNLAND
          Yeah. I can't tell anyone else where it 
          is, because, y'know, they'd all want to 
          go there.
 
The Corinthian lifts the Ruby, examines it. Puts it back.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          I'd like to make use of your mailing 
          list, Funland. There's going to be a 
          gathering of collectors. 
 
                         FUNLAND
          -- really? Uh, sure.
 
Funland moves to an old Mac Plus computer on the bench, 
hunches in front of it.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Nimrod is organizing it. Send him the 
          addresses you have. And I have some names 
          to add: Family Man. Carrion. Moon River. 
          Dog Soup. Candy Man.
 
Bright SHARDS of ruby chip off as the Corinthian works, hit 
the table, the floor -- and flatten into drops of BLOOD. 
 
                         FUNLAND
                  (amazed)
          Dog Soup and Candy Man? Oh, man. Oh, wow 
          ... this'll be great ...
 
Funland's fingers dance over the keyboard. A bloody shard 
flies out from the Ruby, hits Funland on the cheek. He 
touches it. Looks at his finger.
 
                         FUNLAND
          Hey, that's ... that's ... 
 
                         CORINTHIAN
                  (helpful)
          Blood. Yes.
 
Funland stares at his finger, the blood drops coming from the 
ruby. Quickly turns away, back to the keyboard. The 
Corinthian laughs, keeps working ...
 
 
INT.  DREAM REALM - LUCIEN'S LIBRARY - DUSK
 
Lucien sifts through piles of fallen books, carefully placing 
them in order back onto the shelves. A PUMPKINHEAD MAN 
silently assists him.
 
Matthew flutters in, perches on a stack of books.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      53.
 
 
                         MATTHEW
          So, the library's open again. 
 
                         LUCIEN
          Yes. Lord Dream was good enough to 
          restore it before ... before he continued 
          with his tasks.
 
                         MATTHEW
          So he's gone to hell, huh? To get his 
          helm?
 
                         LUCIEN
          Yes.
 
Matthew shudders. He glances around.
 
                         MATTHEW
          I never got into the whole book thing.
 
                         LUCIEN
          Oh, but it's a very unusual library, 
          Matthew.
                  (with pride)
          Somewhere in here is every story that has 
          ever been dreamed. 
 
                         MATTHEW
          Yeah? Say, watch this.
                  (sticks his beak into Lucien's face)
          NEVERMORE! Good, huh?
 
                         LUCIEN
          Hmn. The complete Poe is in the southern 
          annex. Including stories he never wrote, 
          or never finished, except in dreams --
 
                         MATTHEW
          C'mon! I was doing Peter Lorre in that 
          Roger Corman movie --
                  (he cocks his head)
          Hey, Lucien. Is that big black thing 
          supposed to be there?
 
                         LUCIEN
          What?
 
He looks where Matthew is looking --
 
In one wall is a large hole. Nothing beyond but blackness. 
Even as they watch, the hole enlarges, shelves and books 
DISSOLVING as the widening edge touches them.
 
                         LUCIEN
          Oh, dear!
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      54.
 
 
Matthew flutters backwards, away from the black hole. Lucien 
reaches forward, pulls volumes off the shelf nearest the 
hole, saving them from obliteration.
 
                         MATTHEW
          Does this mean ... the boss isn't doing 
          so well in Hell?
 
                         LUCIEN
          No -- it's a Dream Vortex.
 
                         MATTHEW
          Uh, oh. That's bad. That's very bad.
                  (beat)
          What's a Dream Vortex?
 
Lucien's arms are stacked with books by now. He adds more as 
others fall, backing away from the hole.
 
                         LUCIEN
          Something that can destroy the entire 
          Dreaming ... the Waking World ... even 
          Lord Dream himself.
 
                         MATTHEW
          Sheesh ... when it rains, it pours.
 
Lucien and Matthew retreat across the room, through a door --
 
 
INT.  DREAM REALM - LIBRARY - HALLWAY
 
A SLAM! as the door shuts. Lucien's books fall to the floor 
as he leans with his back to the door, as if trying to keep 
the Vortex locked inside.
 
                         LUCIEN
          The Master must be informed as soon as he 
          returns.
 
                         MATTHEW
          If he returns.
 
                         LUCIEN
          Matthew ... sometimes you can be very 
          infuriating.
                  (beat; quietly)
          If he returns ...
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - GATES OF HORN AND IVORY - NIGHT
 
Sandman stands outside the gates. A gesture, and an  ancient 
wooden pier grows from nowhere. It rests on rough-hewn 
pylons, floating in a sea of stars.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      55.
 
 
Sandman now stands at the edge of the pier, looking down. He 
steps off the edge, drops--
 
 
EXT.  GATES OF HELL - DAY
 
Sandman falls, lands on a barren landscape. 
 
Before him is Hell.
 
The Walls of Hell are constructed of human bodies, piled up 
to the sky. Dead bodies, we presume, until here an eye opens, 
there a chest heaves in sigh. 
 
The Gates of Hell are wrought-iron-style ornate, intricate, 
glorious -- but fashioned of living bodies, horribly 
distended.
 
Near the Gates a severed HEAD has been impaled on a spike. 
The head twists toward Sandman, grins.
 
                         HEAD ON SPIKE
          Ah! There is one at the door!
                  (rhyming)
          There's one at the door, at the gates of 
          Damnation. Is it thief, thug or whore?
 
                         SANDMAN
          Greetings. I wish to talk to your master. 
          Immediately.
 
                         HEAD ON SPIKE
          There's one at the door, and there's room 
          for one more, 'till the end of creation!
 
                         SANDMAN
          I am the King of Dreams, of the Nightmare 
          Realms. I seek Lord Lucifer, the Lord of 
          Hell.
 
                         HEAD ON SPIKE
                  (taunting)
          Oh, yes, my clown. So where's your crown? 
          Where's you're ruby?
 
Sandman unexpectedly lashes out with his fist, slugging the 
head. It spins on its spike -- a comic image if it weren't so 
grotesque.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I will take no insults from you, little 
          demon.
 
The Head grins through bloody lips.
 
                         HEAD ON SPIKE
          Squatterbloat!
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      56.
 
 
A minor demon -- SQUATTERBLOAT -- pushes open the Gates of 
Hell. The demon is hunched over, with no mouth; one of its 
arms ends in the shape of a sharp battle-ax.
 
                         HEAD ON SPIKE
          Take the Dreamclown. Guard him and guide 
          him, he's new in town.
 
Squatterbloat nods. Steps back, lifts the battle-ax arm, 
indicating the way. Sandman moves through the gates -- 
 
 
EXT.  HELL - WOOD OF SUICIDES - DAY
 
Sandman follows behind Squatterbloat, takes in Hell as it 
flows past. They move through a forest of thin, sickly-
looking trees.
 
                         SANDMAN
          The wood of suicides has changed since my 
          last visit. I remember it as a tiny 
          grove. Now it is a forest.
 
Squatterbloat remains silent, continues on ... 
 
 
EXT.  HELL - CLIFFS OF TARTARUS - DAY
 
Sandman is led past a row of barred caves. He brushes past 
hands that clutch at him. Anguished voices cry out. Sandman 
tilts his head, hearing something. He raises a hand.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Wait.
 
The demon Squatterbloat pauses. Sandman peers through the 
bars into one of the caves -- 
 
Inside, Roderick Burgess is chained to a wall, his own arms 
wrapped several times around his body, forming a flesh 
straight jacket. He confides to a fellow prisoner, similarly 
constrained.
 
                         BURGESS
                  (boasting)
          I put my curse on a man and he was dead. 
          I captured Dream! Oh, I was the most 
          wicked man to ever live -- 
 
                         SANDMAN
          Roderick Burgess.
 
Burgess looks out, recognizes Sandman. He is stricken.
 
                         BURGESS
          You!
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      57.
 
 
                         SANDMAN
          You call yourself wicked, without knowing 
          what that means. You dream you are the 
          equal of the demons around you.
 
Burgess's mouth drops open, but he has no words.
 
                         SANDMAN (cont'd)
          Burgess, for your deeds against me, this 
          is my judgment on you.
                  (beat)
          You shall know who you truly are. I take 
          away your dream.
 
Burgess frowns.
 
                         BURGESS
          Special? Of course! I'm Roderick Burgess! 
          I'm the ... 
                  (falters)
          That is, I'm the ... uh ... I'm ... just 
          ... 
                  (beat)
          uh, me.
 
His eyes widen. He takes in his surroundings, as if noting 
his situation for the first time.
 
                         BURGESS
          Oh, no.
 
Outside, Sandman gestures to move on. Squatterbloat leads the 
way. From behind them come Burgess's screams -- 
 
                         BURGESS (O.S.)
          Oh God no. Help, somebody help me -- 
 
 
EXT.  HELL - STAIRS OF BLOOD - DAY
 
Squatterbloat stops at the foot of a stairway. Blood flows 
down the steps. Sandman glances up, climbs -- 
 
 
EXT.  HELL - LUCIFER'S THRONE - DAY
 
At the summit, the steps end at a high parapet, at Lucifer's 
throne. Made of flesh, the throne bleeds, source of the 
flowing blood.
 
Lucifer leans casually against a railing. He is blond, lean, 
youthful, a handsome rock star lounging in the shadow of his 
own enormous black wings.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Greetings to you, Lucifer Morningstar.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      58.
 
 
Lucifer looks Sandman up and down.
 
                         LUCIFER
          Hello, Dream. We heard you were caught by 
          mortals, like a newly-fledged demon. We 
          expected better of you.
 
Sandman does not comment. Lucifer hops up on the balcony, 
leans forward expectantly, chin on the back of his hand.
 
                         LUCIFER
          Have you come to ally your realm to ours? 
          To acknowledge the sovereignty of Hell?
 
                         SANDMAN
          You know my views on that, Lightbringer.
 
                         LUCIFER
          Yes, we do. Still this is no social call. 
          What do you want?
 
                         SANDMAN
          My helm was stolen from me. I believe one 
          of your demons has it. I would like it 
          back.
                  (beat)
          Now.
 
Lucifer is amused. He arranges his dark wings about him.
 
                         LUCIFER
          Which demon? There are more than a 
          million demons, after all.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I do not know the demon's name.
 
CLOSE ON: Lucifer, as his eyes narrow. His tone changes -- 
this is serious business.
 
                         LUCIFER
          Then let us summon all of them to tell, 
          and meet them on the Vasty plains of 
          Hell!
 
PULL BACK: from Lucifer's eyes. He and Sandman have not 
moved, but everything around them has changed. The parapet is 
crowded with demons, claws scraping, eyes glinting -- 
 
CONTINUE PULLING BACK: the stairway is covered with demons of 
all types and sizes. Some are insects. Others look like 
reptiles. Some wear their guts outside their skins -- 
 
CONTINUE PULLING BACK: More and more demons, crawling over 
each other, biting, fighting --  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      59.
 
 
All of the demons of Hell.
 
Lucifer and Sandman are tiny dots, standing on a distant 
mesa.
 
                         LUCIFER
          There. Now, Dream King. Tell us ... which 
          demon has your helm?
 
Sandman scans the multitude. He reaches into his Pouch, pulls 
out a handful of sand. Releases it -- 
 
A LINE of DREAM SAND streaks into the demons. It shoots this 
way and that, searching, creatures flying past in a blur -- 
 
Finally the sand SWIRLS, settles on: CHORONZON, a blood-red 
demon, fashionably dressed. He looks surprised.
 
                         LUCIFER
          Choronzon, a Duke of Hell.
                  (to the demon)
          Well? Does Dream speak truly? Do you 
          indeed have his mask of office?
 
Choronzon has two mouths on his face, one above the other. As 
one speaks, the other smirks.
 
                         CHORONZON
          Yes, Lord.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Return it to me. Now.
 
Both of Choronzon's mouths smile, a double dose of insolent 
grin.
 
                         CHORONZON
          Ssss. I traded for it from a mortal. A 
          fair trade.
                  (bold)
          I broke none of the laws of Hell. 
          If you want your precious back then you 
          must fight me for it. Ssss.
 
Demons HOWL and JEER at the challenge. Lucifer is amused. 
Dream regards the utterly confident Choronzon. 
 
                         SANDMAN
          Very well. I challenge you, Choronzon. We 
          shall play the most ancient game.
 
                         CHORONZON
          Sss. Sso. As the challenged, I choose the 
          battlefield.
                  (beat)
          I assert ... Reality.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      60.
 
 
INT.  THE HELLFIRE CLUB - NIGHT
 
A dingy nightclub. Demons sit at small tables placed too 
close together, near a dingy stage. Lucifer watches from a 
seat in the shadows, not touching the drink in front of him.
 
The lighting is hellish, of course. Choronzon is our host. He 
wears a tuxedo and dark glasses, speaks glibly into the mic:
 
                         CHORONZON
          Sss. Welcome, ladies 'n' gennelmen, to 
          another thrill packed evening of 
          funfunfun here at the Hellfire Club.
 
APPLAUSE from the assembled demons. A female demon -- a 
voluptuous body and the head of a horse -- snorts and stomps 
her hooves.
 
                         CHORONZON
          I am your host, Choronzon, High Duke of 
          the Eighth Circle. Tonight, for your 
          entertainment, a formal challenge. Let's 
          have a big hand for Mister Sandman!
 
A BLINDING SPOTLIGHT hits Sandman, standing center stage. 
Scattered APPLAUSE from the demons, amid mostly BOOS.
 
Choronzon moves opposite to Sandman.
 
                         CHORONZON
                  (deadly serious)
          You know the rules, Dreamlord? Win, and 
          you get your helm. Lose, and you serve as 
          a ssslave of Hell, for eternity.
 
Sandman stares into Choronzon's eyes.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I understand.
 
                         CHORONZON
          I have the first move.
                  (loudly)
          I am a dire wolf, prey stalking, lethal 
          prowler.
 
In a quick FLASH we see Choronzon's wolf, a hulking creature, 
stalking through a forest. Sandman is quick to reply:
 
                         SANDMAN
          I am a hunter, horse-mounted, wolf-
          stabbing.
 
We catch a GLIMPSE of Sandman's hunter, on horseback, as the 
hunter kills the wolf.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      61.
 
 
                         CHORONZON
                  (confident)
          I am a horsefly, horse-stinging, hunter-
          throwing.
 
Choronzon's slain wolf becomes a stinging fly, and Sandman's 
hunter is thrown.
 
Demons cheer. At one table, a TOOTHY DEMON picks the flesh 
off another's face, eats it -- washes it down with beer.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I am a spider, fly-consuming, eight-
          legged.
 
Sandman's hunter TRANSFORMS into a spider. Choronzon's fly is 
caught in a web.
 
                         CHORONZON
                  (hisses)
          I am a snake, spider-devouring, poison-
          toothed.
 
Choronzon's fly becomes a snake; it eats Sandman's spider.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I am an ox, snake-crushing, heavy footed.
 
The snake is crushed beneath the hoof of an ox.
 
                         CHORONZON
          I am an anthrax, butcher bacterium, warm-
          life destroying.
 
The demons like that. The Toothy Demon has nearly finished 
his snack -- the other demon's skull is nearly picked clean.
 
Sandman's ox lies on its side, dead and decaying. Sandman 
pauses a moment, considering. Then:
 
                         SANDMAN
          I am a world, space-floating, life 
          nurturing.
 
We see a GREEN WORLD, floating in space. 
 
Lucifer tilts his head, noting Sandman's shift in strategy. 
Choronzon does not hesitate:
 
                         CHORONZON
          I am a nova, all-exploding, planet 
          cremating.
 
WHITE LIGHT from a bright nova OBLITERATES the world.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I am the universe -- all things 
          encompassing, all life embracing.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      62.
 
 
Choronzon leans toward Sandman. His top and bottom mouths 
alternate on each word now, his tone low and deadly:
 
                         CHORONZON
          I am the dark at the end of everything. 
          The end of universes, Gods, worlds ... of 
          everything.
 
Sandman pauses. The assembled demons grin, lean forward, 
pleased with the move. Several of the closer demons lick 
their fangs. Choronzon senses victory. 
 
                         CHORONZON
          Sss. And what will you be then, 
          Dreamlord?
 
Sandman speaks softly:
 
                         SANDMAN
          I am hope.
 
Lucifer's brow furrows. Choronzon is caught off guard. All 
eyes are on him. He stammers.
 
                         CHORONZON
          Oh. Then I am ... sss. I ... 
 
He starts to sweat. He looks around for help, inspiration.
 
                         CHORONZON
          I ... 
                  (he swallows)
          I ... don't know.
 
Lucifer stands, a look of hate and disgust on his face -- 
 
 
EXT.  PLAINS OF HELL - DAY
 
Lucifer and Sandman stand on a flat plain, demons forming a 
wide circle around them. Choronzon, bound in barbed wire, 
writhes and SCREAMS for mercy. Two demons hold him tight.
 
                         LUCIFER
          Take this pathetic creature from our 
          sight. Demonstrate to him our 
          displeasure.
 
The demons pull Choronzon away. Lucifer turns -- he holds 
Sandman's helm in his hands.
 
                         LUCIFER
          Here, Dream Master. Your helm. You have 
          won it fairly.
 
Sandman takes the helm.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      63.
 
 
                         SANDMAN
          Thank you. The king of Hell is honorable.
 
                         LUCIFER
          Honorable? You joke, surely. Look around 
          you.
                  (he sweeps his arm)
          The million Lords of Hell stand arrayed 
          about you. Tell us -- why we should let 
          you leave?
 
Sandman looks. Legions of demons stare back, shout words of 
hate.
 
                         LUCIFER
          Helm or no, you have no power here. What 
          power have dreams in Hell?
 
                         SANDMAN
          You say that dreams have no power here? 
          Tell me, Lucifer Morningstar ... 
 
His voice grows stronger; he raises it to include the rest:
 
                         SANDMAN
          Ask yourselves, all of you ... What is 
          Hell, without the dream of Heaven?
 
Silence. 
 
Lucifer has no answer. Sandman turns away from him, walks 
into the mass of demons.
 
Noiselessly, demons move aside, parting before Sandman, 
unable to meet his gaze. His back to Lucifer, Sandman 
dwindles into the distance.
 
PULL BACK to include Lucifer in frame, seemingly huge now, 
hundreds of feet tall. He watches Sandman take leave of Hell.
 
                         LUCIFER
          One day ... one day we shall destroy him.
 
 
EXT.  GATES OF HELL - DAY
 
The Gates shut heavily behind Sandman -- 
 
He slumps; his posture more exhausted than imperial. He looks 
at his hands, one holding his pouch, the other his helm. Both 
hands are shaking. He smiles a grim little smile -- he has 
gotten away with his bluff.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      64.
 
 
He concentrates, and darkness swirls up, surrounding him, 
obscuring the Gates of Hell --
 
 
INT.  DREAM REALM - DREAM'S PALACE - DUSK
 
Matthew and Lucien sit in the hallway, amongst stacks of 
books. The Pumpkinhead now wears a hard-hat, and is setting 
up construction warning sawhorses outside the Library doors.
 
                         MATTHEW
          So if his nibs and the Dreaming are 
          destroyed ... that's it for us too, huh?
 
                         SANDMAN
          That is true.
 
He has appeared beside them, startling them.
 
                         MATTHEW
          Geez -- I hate when you do that!
                  (re: the helm)
          Glad to see you survived your trip. 
          Welcome back. We're all doomed.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Indeed ..? Lucien?
 
                         LUCIEN
          I fear he's right, my lord.
 
                                                      CUT TO:
 
INT.  ROSE'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT
 
CLOSE ON: Rose, sleeping, a troubled sleep. Her eyes open, 
and she glances over -- 
 
Moonlight through the window cuts across the darkened room. 
Rose's closet door is cracked open, just a little bit. Just 
enough to drive you crazy wondering what might be in there.
 
Rose climbs out of bed. Steps across to the closet. Shuts the 
door. Turns, gets back into bed. She glances over -- 
 
The closet door still hangs open.
 
Rose stares. She gets up. Approaches the closet, much more 
warily this time. Reaches out. Gently pulls it open -- 
 
A YOUNG WOMAN stands there, smiling. 
 
Rose jumps back.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      65.
 
 
The smiling woman does not move. We may recognize her, 
because it is RACHEL, Rose's mother. But not the Rachel we 
last saw stoned on dreamsand. A youthful Rachel, as we first 
met her with Burgess.
 
                         ROSE
          Who are you?
 
Rachel's face falls. Her gaze lowers, unhappy at not being 
recognized. Then she looks up, raises a hand, and PULLS OFF 
HER HEAD --
 
-- revealing another head beneath: Rachel, as we last saw her 
lying in bed, wrinkled, decrepit. Rose gasps.
 
                         ROSE
          Mother. My God. This is a dream. I'm 
          actually having a dream.
 
Rachel reaches up again, and again PULLS OFF HER HEAD. 
Revealed beneath this one is another version of how she 
looked as a young woman. She smiles.
 
                         ROSE
          I've heard about this ... a dream where 
          somebody who's died comes back, to let 
          you know they're all right.
 
Rachel shakes her head. Gestures for Rose to follow her. She 
steps aside -- 
 
We see the closet is no longer a closet. It opens onto a 
courtyard, moonlit, stark, high-contrast black-and-white. A 
little phony-looking, actually, like an old B-movie horror 
film set. Amazing how scary those old sets can look.
 
Rachel again gestures, turns, glides into the courtyard.
 
Rose follows.
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - NIGHT
 
Rose moves through corridors and around corners, following 
Rachel, getting just glimpses of her, always just one step 
behind ... 
 
 
EXT.  ROSE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
 
A big wide convertible pulls to a stop. The driver climbs out 
-- it's the Corinthian. He heads inside.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      66.
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - SANDMAN'S PALACE - HALLWAY - DUSK
 
The library doors swing open. Sandman, Lucien and Matthew 
look out at --
 
A HUGE, SWIRLING VORTEX. There is no library -- a whole 
section of the palace has been consumed. Parts of the 
landscape are pulled into the vortex as they watch.
 
                         SANDMAN
          So it begins once more. The first vortex 
          of this era.
                  (musing)
          Nonetheless, there is something about 
          this one -- this time -- that I don't 
          understand.
 
                         MATTHEW
          That makes two of us. Though I don't 
          think I would've understood it any time.
 
                         SANDMAN
          This has been growing for nearly two 
          decades. 
          Had I not been imprisoned, I would have 
          dealt with it at the time of its 
          conception.
 
                         LUCIEN
          Perhaps this is how the Corinthian 
          escaped ... he found a rift in the 
          Dreaming, and slipped out.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Hm ...
                  (beat)
          The recovery of my Ruby must wait. I must 
          deal with the Vortex, first.
 
                         LUCIEN
          How will you locate it?
 
                         MATTHEW
          Yeah, boy ... that's gonna be a toughie.
                  (as if seeing the Vortex for 
                   the first time)
          Hey! There it is!
 
                         LUCIEN
          That's merely the manifestation of the 
          Vortex, Matthew. The Vortex itself is 
          usually a mortal.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      67.
 
 
                         MATTHEW
          A person? How does he deal with it, then?
 
                         LUCIEN
          How? He terminates their existence, 
          Matthew. To protect the dreaming.
 
                         MATTHEW
          Oh. Makes me feel kinda sorry for him. 
          The mortal, that is.
 
                         SANDMAN
          The Vortex is not a he. It is a she.
 
He points - DIRECTLY AT THE CAMERA.
 
                         SANDMAN
          If you look closely you will see her 
          observing us, now, from the corner of the 
          throne room.
 
Matthew flutters over, STARES AT US. We realize this whole 
scene has been a POV SHOT (from Rose's POV). The effect is 
quite disconcerting.
 
                         MATTHEW
                  (tilting his head)
          Huh. She doesn't look like much. 
 
CAMERA BACKS AWAY, indicating the POV character's retreat.
 
                         LUCIEN
          She looks quite young.
 
                         MATTHEW
          I say the Boss can take her.
 
A BLUR as the CAMERA PANS AWAY -- 
 
 
INT.  ROSE'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT
 
Rose comes awake even as she is shoving herself backwards -- 
out of the bed and onto the floor, startling her kitten.
 
                         ROSE
          OW!
 
She gets her bearings. Rubs her head.
 
                         ROSE
          Christ, that sucked. I don't think I need 
          to dream after all.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      68.
 
 
                         SANDMAN
          Unfortunately that is not true for the 
          rest of the world.
 
Rose looks up. SANDMAN steps out of the shadows -- or did he 
just appear from them?
 
                         ROSE
          Oh my God! Stay away from me!
 
She scrambles for her nightstand drawer, pulls out a .38 
revolver.
 
                         ROSE
          Stay back! I should have known you were 
          some kind of freak! How did you get in 
          here?
 
                         SANDMAN
          You know.
 
She does. Sandman looks down. At his feet, the kitten mews. 
He picks it up, scratches its ears absently.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Once in every era, Rose Walker, there is 
          a Vortex. The Vortex, by its nature, 
          destroys the barriers between dreaming 
          minds; destroys the ordered chaos of the 
          Dreaming ...
 
                         ROSE
          This has nothing to do with me.
 
                         SANDMAN
                  (over her)
          Until the myriad dreamers are one. Then 
          the Vortex collapses in upon itself. And 
          then it is gone. It takes the minds of 
          the dreamers with it; damages the 
          Dreaming beyond repair. It leaves nothing 
          but darkness.
 
The kitten has grown tired of the attention; it squirms. 
Sandman sets it down.
 
                         SANDMAN
          It is one of my functions to prevent this 
          from occurring again.
 
                         ROSE
          Again?
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      69.
 
 
                         SANDMAN
          It happened once ... A world was lost, 
          Rose Walker. Aeons ago, and half a 
          universe away. I ... failed in my duty. A 
          whole world perished.
                  (downcast)
          It will never happen again.
 
The kitten comes to Rose. She lets it crawl into her arms, 
but she doesn't lower the gun. She almost speaks to the 
kitten:
 
                         ROSE
          Why me?
 
                         SANDMAN
          Who was your father, Rose Walker?
 
                         ROSE
          My father? I don't know. My mother never 
          ...
 
                         SANDMAN
          Your father was a dream. A dream your 
          mother conjured, from my pouch of sand. 
          You were born of the union of a mortal 
          and a dream. You are both, and neither, 
          and by being -- and not being -- such, 
          you have become the Vortex.
 
                         ROSE
          But if you're the King of Dreams -- can't 
          you just, I don't know, wave your hand 
          and make it stop?
 
                         SANDMAN
          I am not omnipotent. No matter how 
          strange the circumstances of your birth, 
          you are of the living. You are the 
          Vortex. Only when the Vortex is dead is 
          the Dreaming safe.
 
He moves nearer, crouches to be closer to her.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Death is not always a bad thing, Rose ...
 
                         ROSE
          Yeah? Well, you first.
 
                         SANDMAN
          You could come and stay in the 
          dreamworld. Some mortals are given that 
          option. My raven, Matthew, was once a 
          mortal man.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      70.
 
 
                         ROSE
          I don't want to die.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I ... I am sorry, Rose.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Yes, you are. You are the sorriest excuse 
          for a murderer I've ever seen.
 
The Corinthian stands in the doorway. Rose raises her gun 
back up, aims it at him.
 
                         ROSE
          What -- who are you? 
 
                         SANDMAN
          Corinthian. Do not interfere with this.
 
                         ROSE
          You know him?
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Yes, he knows me. He created me. And now 
          I've come to challenge him. It's just the 
          same old story, huh?
 
He moves across the room, to Rose. She keeps the gun steady.
 
                         CORINTHIAN (Cont'd)
          But here's a cool twist: I'm here to save 
          you!
                  (beat)
          He won't let you stay alive, you know. 
          The dreaming will fall apart. It's 
          already happening. I can feel it.
                  (to Sandman)
          This woman is now under my protection. 
          Got that? Leave her be, or suffer the 
          consequences.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Corinthian. I did not think it possible 
          for you to surprise me.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          I've walked the waking world for almost 
          two decades now. As much as I've taught 
          these humans, I've also learned.
 
He holds up the Ruby.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      71.
 
 
                         CORINTHIAN (CONT'D)
          For instance: One shouldn't limit one's 
          ambition.
 
                         SANDMAN
          That ruby is mine, little dream. I 
          command you return it.
 
The Corinthian considers. His voice resonates with sarcasm:
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Have I not earned the praise of my 
          creator? Look what I have done. Look what 
          I have found. For you.
 
                         SANDMAN
          It is not in your nature to be 
          beneficent. 
                  (holds out his hand)
          Do not force me to unmake you.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
                  (shrugs)
          Hokay. Your call.
 
He tosses the Ruby to Sandman, who catches it. Sandman holds 
it up.
 
                         SANDMAN
          At last --
 
The ruby GLOWS, throwing off ELDRITCH FIRE--
 
Sandman SCREAMS. The ruby drops from his hand. Sandman drops 
to his knees, face wracked with pain. He doubles over. 
 
                         SANDMAN
          ... you have ... changed it ...
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Uh-huh. It's mine now. The power behind 
          it may be yours, but I'm the one who 
          calls the shots.
 
He picks up the Ruby, aims it at Sandman. Considers. Then 
kicks Sandman hard in the side.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          There. Was that more in my nature?
 
                         ROSE
          That's enough.
 
She's got the gun leveled at the Corinthian. He looks at her. 
The Ruby glows.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      72.
 
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          What are you going to do with that?
 
Instead of the gun, Rose is now holding the kitten in a two-
handed grip. It YOWLS. She drops it in shock.
 
The Corinthian holds out his hand to her.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Now ... come with me if you want to live.
 
Rose looks at Sandman, then back at the Corinthian.
 
                         ROSE
          I ... don't think so.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Rose. You must come with me. 
 
                         ROSE
          No!
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          No, see, it's not a request.
 
He PUNCHES the side of her head, hard. She pitches forward. 
The Corinthian catches her in a fireman's carry.
 
 
EXT.  ROSE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAWN
 
Whistling a monotonous tune, the Corinthian dumps Rose into 
the convertible, hops in, and ROARS off. 
 
                                                      CUT TO:
 
EXT.  NORTHERN CALIFORNIA - SANTA CRUZ - DAY
 
Flying along low over green rolling hills. Pacific Coast 
Highway is a winding ribbon below. Ahead we see a plain two-
story hotel on the ocean side of the highway.
 
The tall sign in front looms up; it reads: WELCOME CEREAL 
CONVENTION.
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - DEALERS' ROOM - DAY
 
A typical convention floor: dealer tables are laid out with 
videos, books, posters for sale. Poorly lit. Far more men 
than women. We pick up snatches of conversation, almost 
documentary-style. A DEALER and CUSTOMER chat:
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      73.
 
 
                         DEALER
          -- the TV version? The TV version 
          butchered it! But I hear you can get it 
          uncut on video in Canada --
 
A TIRED MAN gets a drink from a vending machine: 
 
                         TIRED MAN
          Hate these little hick towns. Wouldn't be 
          seen dead here, if it weren't for the 
          convention --
 
Two BUYERS examine the liner notes of an old LP record album:
 
                         BUYER
          Yeah. He slays me. You heard him do the 
          'I am John's coathanger routine?' 
          Hilarious --
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - MAIN LOBBY - DAY
 
A man strides through the lobby; he carries a clipboard, 
wears square eyeglasses and a worried expression. His 
carefully hand-lettered name tag reads: NIMROD.
 
He comes to the registration table. Funland runs it, the 
metal folding chair straining under his massive bulk. 
 
                         NIMROD
          Do we have the Corinthian?
 
Funland flips through index cards in a tiny metal box. He now 
wears a little black skull cap with little black cat ears on 
it that once may have been little black mouse ears.
 
                         FUNLAND
          Hasn't checked in here yet. But don't 
          worry -- I'm sure he's coming.
 
                         NIMROD
          He can't not come. He's our guest of 
          honor. Have we got any other big names so 
          far?
 
Funland's thick fingers flip through the cards again.
 
                         FUNLAND
          Um. Moon River, but he seemed kind of 
          shy. And the Candyman, you know, the one 
          from Connecticut. The guy with the candy-
          canes. Umn, the Lip Collector is here --
 
                         NIMROD
          How many so far?
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      74.
 
 
                         FUNLAND
          Eighty people have registered. Pretty 
          good turnout, huh?
 
                         NIMROD
          Eighty? Jesus. Didn't think so many would 
          show --
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - MAIN AUDITORIUM - DAY
 
Nimrod, a little nervous, stands at a lectern, looking out 
over a sea of faces. All types: young, old, professional, 
blue color. Very few women.
 
                         NIMROD
          Hello.
                  (beat)
          I, uh, heard a story recently I thought 
          might amuse you. It seems that the 
          telephone rang in a police station. The 
          duty cop answers and a woman's voice 
          says, "Help -- I've been reaped!"
 
Nimrod takes a breath -- he's a terrible storyteller.
 
                         NIMROD
          He says, "Don't you mean raped?" "No, she 
          says. "He used a scythe."
 
A half-second of endless pause while the punchline sinks in, 
then there is an explosion of laughter. Nimrod visibly 
relaxes.
 
                         NIMROD
          It's really good to see so many of us 
          here. So many. This is the first of these 
          cons, and if you want to see another, 
          there are a couple rules we must adhere 
          to.
                  (raises a finger)
          Firstly, use your preferred sobriquet. No 
          civilian names. 
                  (raises two fingers)
          Secondly, we don't shit where we eat. 
          Nobody does any collecting until the 
          convention's over and you're at least two 
          hundred miles away. 
 
                         VOICE IN CROWD
          Aw ...
 
                         NIMROD
          This rule must be followed, with so many 
          of us at risk.
                        (more)
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      75.
 
 
                        NIMROD (CONT'D)
          We've reserved the entire hotel; there
          are no other guests, so you shouldn't be
          tempted.
 
A few good-natured laughs at this. 
 
                         NIMROD
          So. Don't miss the keynote address -- 
          it's at eight, and it's from the 
          Corinthian, the man who's inspired so 
          many of us --
 
A sudden BURST of APPLAUSE. A few people stand. Hoots of 
approval. There's no doubt who everyone is here to see. 
Nimrod backs away, a little shocked, but he smiles --
 
                         NIMROD
          Welcome to Cereal Con '98!
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - RESTAURANT - DAY
 
A distinguished man -- THE GOOD DOCTOR -- sits at the 
counter, sipping coffee and examining a flyer. Next to him is 
PHILIP (aka THE BOGEYMAN). Young, wild hair, wrinkled jacket, 
he stares sideways at the Doctor in awe.
 
                         PHILIP
          Excuse me, but I've seen you before, 
          haven't I? You're that doctor. To think 
          you're a -- a collector.
 
                         GOOD DOCTOR
          Thank you. You are?
 
                         PHILIP
          I'm the Bogeyman.
 
                         GOOD DOCTOR
          I've heard of you. The newspapers, in 
          their facile way, have also christened me 
          Flay-by-Night. 
                  (out of nowhere)
          Seventy nine.
 
                         PHILIP
          Sorry?
 
                         GOOD DOCTOR
          "Give me a number." That's your line, 
          isn't it? Seventy nine.
 
CLOSE ON Philip, as his expression becomes dreamy while he 
remembers:
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      76.
 
 
                         PHILIP
          Oh yeah, right. She was, like, she had 
          these beautiful eyes, like patches of sky 
          early in the morning, and she screamed 
          like an angel ...
 
A woman catches Philip's eye -- her nametag identifies her as 
DOG SOUP. Philip is amazed, eyes glued as she passes by.
 
                         PHILIP
          Dog Soup is a woman? Oh, man. I gotta go 
          talk to her.
 
He bounds out of his chair, dashes to go catch the woman. The 
GOOD DOCTOR frowns, follows Philip with his eyes --
 
 
EXT.  SANTA CRUZ - HOTEL - DAY
 
A big, long, mean-lookin' convertible pulls up in front of 
the hotel. The Corinthian leaps over the door before the 
valet can get to it --
 
The Corinthian lifts the wide lid of the rear trunk. Looks 
big enough in there for a family of five, but right now 
there's just one LARGE OLD SUITCASE TRUNK.
 
BAM! The trunk hits the pavement. BAM! The rear lid slams 
down. 
 
bam!-bam!-bam!-bam! As the Corinthian pulls the trunk behind 
him up the concrete steps, into the hotel.
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - LOBBY - DAY
 
CORINTHIAN'S POV as we move through the lobby. Smiles and 
waves from people as they pass by. The Corinthian's name is 
whispered and people point -- it's a rock star's entrance, 
creating quite the stir.
 
Funland has a packet waiting -- he extends it as the 
Corinthian arrives.
 
                         FUNLAND
          Here's you stuff, Mr. Corinthian. Uhn, 
          wear your badge at all times. You won't 
          be permitted into the convention areas 
          without it. 
 
The Corinthian looks delighted at the materials.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Certainly! Thank you, Funland. You're 
          doing a fine job!
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      77.
 
 
Funland glances curiously at the trunk as the Corinthian 
wheels it toward the elevator. Philip appears at the 
Corinthian's side, out of nowhere.
 
                         PHILIP
          Wow. Mister Nimrod said you'd be coming, 
          but... Um, we're all big fans of yours. 
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          I'm so glad you could come.
 
Doors part. The Good Doctor is in the elevator. Philip 
follows the Corinthian inside --
 
IN THE ELEVATOR:
 
The Good Doctor keeps an eye on Philip.
 
                         PHILIP
          Say, you ever read a magazine called 
          CHASTE? It's really terrific.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          I've heard of it.
 
                         PHILIP
          Really? 
                  (digs out a rolled-up copy)
          Hey, can I have your autograph --
 
Up one level, the doors part --
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Nimrod!
 
IN THE HALLWAY,
 
the Corinthian hurries out of the elevator, drops the trunk -- 
THUD! -- puts an arm around Nimrod.
 
                         NIMROD
          You're here. Good. The convention hall is 
          set up, but we still need to discuss the 
          exact numbers for the banquet --
 
Phillip follows the Corinthian out, but he has been left 
behind, forgotten. The Good Doctor stays in the elevator. The 
doors close on his dark expression --
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      78.
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
 
A panel discussion in progress. A wild-eyed man with a 
flowing gray beard holds the mic tightly, hoarding it from 
the other two guests, who look pissed. The name card in front 
of him reads DELIVERANCE.
 
                         DELIVERANCE
          I am a merciful God and a just God. For I 
          release men and women and children from 
          the suffering and torment of their lives, 
          and I give them a new life in my heaven!
 
He slams his fist down, rants on. Philip is in the audience, 
watching, rapt. He is startled when someone whispers:
 
                         NIMROD
          Bogeyman, can we talk? In your room?
 
Philip turns, sees Nimrod, who wears a friendly smile.
 
                         BOGEYMAN
          Uhn, well, I'm watching the religion 
          panel, man, but ... uh, sure.
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - PHILIP'S ROOM - DAY
 
The door SLAMS open. Philip is shoved into the room hard; he 
stumbles, falls to his knees.
 
                         PHILIP
          Listen, you guys -- oh God -- listen, 
          what is this? 
 
Philip has seen the Good Doctor, standing silently in the 
shadows of the room.  Next to him is the LIP COLLECTOR -- a 
tall, gangly man with a gaunt face and toothy grin.
 
                         PHILIP
          I'm the Bogeyman. Really I am.
                  (soft)
          Give me a number. Any number.
 
Nimrod goes through Philip's wallet. The Good Doctor picks up 
a copy of CHASTE magazine, casually flips through it. The Lip 
Collector hangs in the background, still grinning.
 
                         NIMROD
          Your name is Philip Sitz. You're the 
          editor, writer, whatever, of Chaste 
          magazine. Your number's up, Philip. You 
          aren't one of us.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      79.
 
 
                         PHILIP
          No -- no, I am. I understand it. Females 
          are insects created for male pleasure. 
          Strength. Energy. Lust. The willingness 
          to sacrifice another's life for one's own 
          gratification ...
 
He collapses, lowers his head, kneeling before them.
 
                         PHILIP
          I understand it. That's why I had to get 
          here. To see you all. To learn.
 
                         NIMROD
          Big mistake, Philip. Big mistake.
 
The Good Doctor swings a metal suitcase stand at Philip's 
head. Philip sprawls to the ground. The Good Doctor and 
Nimrod stare at each other.
 
                         GOOD DOCTOR
          "We don't shit where we eat," Mr. Nimrod?
 
                         NIMROD
          Except when we have to, Doctor. Needs 
          must, when the devil drives.
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - CORINTHIAN'S SUITE - DAY
 
From the bathroom, we hear the SOUND of the SHOWER RUNNING. 
The Corinthian in there, whistling happily.
 
The large old trunk sits on the bed. A loud THUMP, and it 
jiggles, shaking the bed. Something's inside. Another THUMP, 
and it moves closer to the edge. It's pretty comic, actually. 
A final THUMP --
 
The trunk tilts over the edge of the bed, falls, clasp-side-
down. It splits open.
 
A foot appears, then a leg. Rose struggles out from under the 
trunk. Her hands are tied behind her back, and she is gagged. 
She looks toward the bathroom fearfully, bolts for the door.
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - HALLWAY - DAY
 
Rose staggers down the hallway, her legs buckling beneath 
her. She's frightened, disoriented. She pushes her face 
against the wall, scrapes at the gag, rolling it, getting it 
out of her mouth. Above her is a hand-lettered sign: 4:30 PM 
panel discussion: MAKE IT PAY. VOICES come from inside:
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      80.
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
 
A panel discussion in progress, the participants' names on 
cards in front of them:
 
                         CHOIRBOY
          ... even ten G's per victim identified 
          isn't too much to ask.
 
                         CARRION
          Right. The thing to remember is that 
          they'll pay to know for certain. Even if 
          the cops don't go with it, the families 
          will.
 
                         HELLO LITTLE GIRL
          But, Carrion, we don't do it for the 
          money --
 
There is some commotion at the back of the room. Heads turn 
as Rose stumbles in.
 
                         ROSE
          Please. Someone. I've been kidnapped --
 
She's such the damsel in distress, someone LAUGHS.
 
                         VOICE IN CROWD
          Boy, has she come to the wrong room!
 
                         2ND VOICE
          No kidding!
 
                         VOICE IN CROWD
          It's a joke. It's gotta be.
 
                         ROSE
          Please -- he's going to kill me ...
 
GALES of LAUGHTER at this. Rose backs away --
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - HALLWAY - DAY
 
Rose turns, runs blindly into the bulk that is Funland.
 
                         FUNLAND
          Geez. You okay, miss?
 
                         ROSE
          Please. I need help. I need to get to a 
          phone.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      81.
 
 
                         FUNLAND
          You do? Sure. Sure. We'll get you to a 
          phone. Here.
                  (unties her wrists)
          Uh ... this way.
 
Rose looks at him gratefully, mouths 'thank you.' Funland 
smiles, embarrassed. Leads her down the hallway. Keeps 
glancing down at her out of the corner of his eye.
 
                         FUNLAND
          Say, you look pretty young. How old are 
          you?
 
                         ROSE
          Twenty.
 
                         FUNLAND
          Oh, no. You can't be. I'd say you're 
          younger than that. A lot younger. Right 
          in here.
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - BANQUET HALL - DAY
 
Rose steps through two heavy doors. Before her are rows of 
dining tables set for the night's banquet. Empty and silent. 
Rose frowns.
 
                         ROSE
          Where's the --
                  (realizes)
          Oh, God, no --
 
Funland slaps her across the face. Moves on top of her.
 
                         FUNLAND
          We're going to play, little girl. We can 
          make believe it's my special place.
 
He puts his hands around Rose's throat. She chokes --
 
                         FUNLAND
          It's a small world, after all. I love 
          that song. It's so true. So true.
 
He tightens his grip. 
 
                         FUNLAND
          Now, when we've finished you mustn't tell 
          anybody that I played with you ...
 
                         CORINTHIAN (O.S.)
          Let go of her, Nathan Diskin.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      82.
 
 
Funland looks up, the expression of a boy caught with his 
hand in the cookie jar, except his hands are around Rose's 
throat.
 
                         FUNLAND
          Huh? How -- how did you know my name?
 
The Corinthian stands there, furious.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Let go of her. You have no idea what you 
          almost did.
 
Funland drops Rose. She scurries away, choking and coughing. 
Funland cowers under the Corinthian's glare. In a little-boy 
voice:
 
                         FUNLAND
          Are you going to kill me?
 
The Corinthian advances on him.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          You don't seem to understand the rules, 
          Funland. Too bad. 
                  (in his face)
          I guess I'll have to remind you, then. 
          Let me tell you, Funland, what the first 
          rule is --
                  (he wags a finger)
          No killing.
 
The Corinthian laughs. Funland, panting in fear, laughs, too. 
The Corinthian turns, grabs Rose, who shrieks as he pulls her 
away.
 
 
EXT.  SANTA CRUZ - REDWOOD FOREST - CLEARING - DAY
 
A rope is tossed over a branch. Philip, gagged, no shirt, his 
chest bare and vulnerable, is strung up by his arms.
 
                         NIMROD
          I won't bother to ask how you got 
          Bogeyman's invitation. We'll talk about 
          something else.
 
We are PHILIP's POV -- Nimrod stares up at us. Behind him are 
rows of huge lovely redwoods, a cathedral of trees. An 
otherworldly scene, like in a dream.
 
                         NIMROD
          You said you came here to learn. Okay. 
          We'll teach you. Teach you that this 
          isn't about sex; it isn't about power; it 
          isn't about cruelty.
                         (more)
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      83.
 
 
                         NIMROD (CONT'D)
                  (beat)
          You'll learn.
 
Behind Nimrod, the Good Doctor steps INTO FRAME. Stares at 
Philip, staring right at us.
 
                         NIMROD
          The Good Doctor Likes to skin people 
          alive. Lip Collector -- well, the name 
          says it all.
 
The Lip collector steps into frame on the other side, shy, 
hunched over, but still grinning.
 
                         NIMROD
          And I am Nimrod, the hunter. I can bone, 
          joint and gut any animal in minutes. And 
          you know what we're going to do now, 
          Philip?
                  (a deadly smile)
          We're going to take turns ...
 
 
EXT.  SANTA CRUZ - REDWOOD FOREST - LATER
 
Philip stands up in the forest, looks dazed. OFF SCREEN there 
is an odd SOUND, the FLUTTERING of many wings.
 
                         PHILIP
          Wow! When they strung me up, I thought I 
          was a goner for sure!
 
Death steps up right next to him, but she's facing the 
opposite way, looking back toward the clearing.
 
                         DEATH
          That's what you thought, huh?
 
Philip looks at her, a little confused, unsure.
 
                         PHILIP
          Yeah ...
 
                         DEATH
                  (nods toward the clearing)
          Say, aren't you going to watch? They're 
          not nearly finished, yet.
 
Philip turns, looks back toward the clearing. We hear the 
final sounds of his body being killed. The reality of his 
death sinks in.
 
                         PHILIP
          So that's it? That's all I get?
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      84.
 
 
                         DEATH
          'Fraid so --
 
Death squints a little, looking toward the clearing.
 
                         DEATH
          Wait a second. I know those guys!
 
                         PHILIP
          So?
 
                         DEATH
          So in my line of work I don't get many, 
          y'know, long term relationships. Huh.
 
She looks at Philip with interest.
 
                         DEATH
          You're one lucky guy, Philip.
 
                         PHILIP
          Really?
 
                         DEATH
          Really. Really-really. Most people worry 
          their death has no significance. Yours 
          could be one of the most significant of 
          all time.
 
                         PHILIP
          Cool!
 
Death smiles, puts her arm around Philip. He seems to like 
it. She walks him away from the clearing.
 
                         DEATH
          So, where would you like to go?
 
                         PHILIP
          Um. You mean, I get to pick?
 
                         DEATH
          That's how it works ...
 
They disappear behind a huge redwood. OFF SCREEN is that odd 
sound again -- the loud FLUTTERING of many WINGS --
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - HALLWAY - DAY
 
Death moves down the hallway, looking around with interest, 
peeking into various conference rooms. 
 
                         DEATH
                  (to herself)
          Shit, I don't believe this ...
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      85.
 
 
A sign reads: 'THERE IS NO SANITY CLAUS.' Inside the room, a 
nervous professional man answers a question:
 
                         CANDY MAN
          Uhn, look, as a practicing psychiatrist, 
          I, uh, well, look, none of you, uh, well, 
          there's no more evidence of mental 
          abnormality among us people than amongst, 
          um, them. Less, maybe.
 
Death raises an eyebrow, moves to the next room. This one is 
titled WOMEN IN SERIAL KILLING. In the front, DOG SOUP sits 
between a NURSE and a WOMAN IN BLACK. They don't look to 
pleased as she speaks:
 
                         DOG SOUP
          I tell you, I'm sick and tired of women 
          in our line being stereotyped as black 
          widows or killer nurses. I'm a serial 
          killer, and a woman, and I'm proud of it 
          ...
 
She moves on to the next room: WE ARE WHAT WE ARE. She peeks 
in to hear:
 
                         OREGON DEVIL
          ... fundamental act of humanity is to 
          kill. They are the sheep and cattle. But 
          we know the truth. We're alive.
 
Death stops, shakes her head in disbelief.
 
                         DEATH
          Little brother, what have you done?
 
She turns around, goes back the way she came --
 
 
INT.  PAUL'S APARTMENT - DAY
 
Typical artist's apartment. Messy, canvasses of many sizes 
strewn everywhere. Weirdly, all of the canvasses are BLANK.
 
Paul (who we haven't seen in a while, he's Rose's artist 
friend, the guy with the nightmares) sits in a large open 
windowsill, feet dangling over the edge. He looks drunk, 
wasted. He turns, stares INTO CAMERA.
 
                         PAUL
          Who are you? How did you get in?
 
He follows someone as they move closer -- it is DEATH. She 
shrugs.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      86.
 
 
                         DEATH
          Sorry. Didn't mean to disturb you. The 
          door was open. 
 
                         PAUL
          Cigarette?
 
Death holds up a hand.
 
                         DEATH
          Not for me!
 
                         PAUL
          Who are you?
                  (she just looks at him)
          Did you come for me?
 
                         DEATH
          No. I'm searching for my brother. He's 
          here somewhere, nearby. I've got to find 
          him.
 
                         PAUL
          Matter of life or death?
 
Death smiles. Glances at the windowsill.
 
                         DEATH
                  (gently)
          It'll be soon enough, Paul. Why rush it?
 
Paul looks at the many empty canvasses. Haltingly:
 
                         PAUL
          I used to think I was special. But I'm 
          not. I'm just like everyone else. I'm 
          going to be dead one day, just like 
          everyone else, and then that's it.
 
Death nods. Moves toward the door. Stops.
 
                         DEATH
          Just go ahead and do whatever you want. 
          It's not going to make any difference.
 
Paul looks at her questioningly.
 
                         DEATH
          Everybody always gets the same deal, no 
          matter what. One lifetime. No more, no 
          less.
 
Paul turns away, a thoughtful look on his face --
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      87.
 
 
INT.  ROSE'S APARTMENT - DAY
 
CLOSE ON: SANDMAN, as he opens his eyes, squints into the sun 
streaming in through the window. We hear that loud FLUTTERING 
SOUND -- like the wings of birds --
 
                         DEATH (O.S.)
          There you are!
 
SANDMAN'S POV: looking up as his sister, Death, leans over 
him, blocking the sun.
 
                         DEATH
                  (mock ominous)
          I've come for you, little brother!
 
Sandman struggles, leans up on his elbows. Death laughs.
 
                         DEATH
          Just kidding.
 
Death watches as Sandman slowly recovers. 
 
                         SANDMAN
          Sister -- thank you for coming to my aid.
 
                         DEATH
          I'm not coming to your aid, I'm here to 
          kick your butt. 
 
Sandman stares at her, frowns. She leans close to him, 
explains:
 
                         DEATH
          I've found your escaped nightmare, little 
          brother. He's tearing the world apart at 
          the seams, and near as I can tell it's 
          your fault.
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - BANQUET HALL - NIGHT
 
No empty seats; the place is packed with serial killers, many 
of the faces familiar to us now. The mood is expectant, 
excited. Nimrod addresses them; he's become a confident 
master of ceremonies: 
 
                         NIMROD
          ... they've called him the Eye Guy, and 
          the Dark Angel, and Shades, and maybe a 
          thousand other names. But we've always 
          known it was one man --
                  (he starts clapping)
          Gentlemen. Ladies. Our guest of honor: 
          the Corinthian!
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      88.
 
 
The Corinthian leaps onto the stage amid thunderous APPLAUSE. 
He gestures for quiet, and the crowd reluctantly complies.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Is this on? All right. Many of you know 
          this story. But for those that don't ...
                  (he coughs)
          Once upon a time --
 
Renewed APPLAUSE -- like a rock-concert crowd recognizing the 
opening bars of a favorite song. The Corinthian grins, waits, 
starts over:
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Once upon a time, the mean Lord of Dreams 
          was captured. A child was born of his 
          magic dream sand, making a rift in dreams 
          ... and allowing your humble servant to 
          escape.
 
The Corinthian bows low. APPLAUSE rises up; he basks in it.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          That child, I am happy to say, is here 
          with us today!
 
A sweeping gesture. From a side door, Rose Walker is wheeled 
out -- she's gagged, blindfolded, and bound head-to-toe to a 
moving dolly. Catcalls and screams. She is left in the middle 
of the stage.
 
The Corinthian takes the mic in hand, moves into the crowd 
like a daytime talk show host.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          And the Vortex, continued to grow, 
          weakening the Sand King, allowing your 
          humble servant to take his magic Ruby 
          Dreamstone!
 
He raises the glittering Ruby high above him. CHEERS from the 
crowd.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          And now, the happy ending. Soon, the 
          dreams will all be gone ... all there 
          will be left is reality.
                  (gathers them by eye)
          You are special people. Very special 
          people. And the new reality will be 
          created in the shape of your dreams!
 
The Corinthian speaks in an evangelical fervor. He whirls, 
points to Deliverance in his long gray beard --
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      89.
 
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Deliverance! In the new world, you will 
          cleanse the world of the wicked, and lead 
          your people to righteousness!
 
And WE SEE a quick image, FLAMES bursting to life, a house on 
fire, Deliverance praying as people inside begin to SCREAM --
 
BACK TO SCENE,
 
as the Corinthian whirls, points to Funland --
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Funland! You will be a funny giant, and 
          your little friends will come running to 
          play with you, and never make fun of you 
          ...
 
And WE SEE it -- Funland, dancing in a line of kids, holding 
hands, and it's more than a little disconcerting.
 
BACK TO SCENE,
 
on Funland's blissfully smiling face. Someone stands up next 
to him -- it is Dog Soup, the female serial killer.
 
                         DOG SOUP
          Excuse me ...
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Yes? A question?
 
                         DOG SOUP
          I wanted to ask, uh, how do we know that 
          it works? The Ruby.
 
The Corinthian blinks.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Works? It's already working. Look at this 
          convention. You're serial killers, for 
          godsakes. How can we be getting away with 
          this? Where are the maids -- the 
          bellboys? You think this is normal?
 
Some of the audience shift uncomfortably in their chairs.
 
The Corinthian holds the Ruby aloft.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          It seems normal -- it has become normal -- 
          because of this.
                         (more)
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      90.
 
 
                         CORINTHIAN (CONT'D)
                  (quoting)
          'Behold, I show you a mystery; we shall 
          not all sleep, but we shall be changed in 
          a moment, in the twinkling of an eye ...'
                  (smiles)
          You will walk this world like giants. You 
          will be the celebrities, the stars --
 
Suddenly, the room is filled with ADORING MEDIA: spotlights 
from mini-cams, flashes from cameras.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          You will be the heroes of books and 
          movies, and -- uh ... 
 
Looking out into the crowd, we notice a DARK FIGURE, seated, 
unmoving. The Corinthian frowns, but keeps speaking:
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          ... and the faces on the cover of People 
          magazine ...
 
Now we get a good look: it is SANDMAN, sitting in the crowd, 
watching. The Corinthian is unnerved. The reporters stare 
into the crowd --
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          We are gladiators, and we are 
          swashbucklers and warriors and ... uh, 
          kings ...
 
Sandman stands. ALL SOUND DROPS OUT. Only the Sandman and the 
Corinthian seem real -- all others have been reduced to 
backdrop.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          ... of the night ...
 
                         SANDMAN
          What ... what do you think you are doing?
 
The Corinthian twirls the Ruby.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Actually, I'm glad you're here. I think 
          I've got the hang of this.
                  (regards him)
          But you don't look strong enough to make 
          it interesting. Do you?
 
                         SANDMAN
          You must not do this. I forbid you.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      91.
 
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          You abandoned me. I waited for your 
          return. I remember the gray days that 
          stretched into years and into decades. 
          The slow crumbling of walls ... the rooms 
          that were no longer there ...
 
Sandman lowers his head slightly.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I ... am sorry, Corinthian.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Well, that doesn't cut it! You see, I 
          like the waking world. It needs a few 
          changes, that's all. I'm staying.
 
Lightning quick, Sandman reaches beneath his coat, and 
extracts his POUCH OF SAND. He tosses a handful -- 
 
-- into the Corinthian's eyes. He staggers back.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          No!
 
He backs away, holds the Ruby up like a talisman, clawing at 
his eyes. Sandman slips quickly to Rose's side. Her bonds 
fall away.
 
                         ROSE
          You came for me ...
 
                         SANDMAN
          I had to.
 
He lifts her in his arms, and hurries toward a side exit. The 
Corinthian blinks, searching, still unable to see --
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - LOBBY - NIGHT
 
Sandman sets Rose down.
 
                         ROSE
          You've got to stop him. He'll destroy the 
          world.
 
                         SANDMAN
          I do not know if I can stop him. I may 
          not be strong enough.
 
                         ROSE
          Because ... because of me.
 
He says nothing. Rose stares at him.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      92.
 
 
                         ROSE (CONT'D)
          What ... are you going to do?
 
Sandman considers. His brow furrows as he weighs his options. 
And then he decides --
 
                         SANDMAN
          Nothing. I will do nothing. 
                  (trying to convince himself)
          There are countless other planes beyond 
          this one. We can travel them together, 
          and leave this one to the Corinthian.
 
Rose stares up at him. She can't believe what he is saying.
 
                         SANDMAN (CONT'D)
          I cannot find it in me to harm you, Rose. 
          You did nothing to deserve it. 
 
                         ROSE
          Deserve. Deserve has nothing to do with 
          it, does it? Things just happen sometimes 
          ... and all you can do is the best you 
          can with what you've got.
 
                         SANDMAN
          You sound very much like my sister.
 
                         ROSE
          Then I'd like to meet her sometime.
                  (beat)
          Listen -- this is my world. This is where 
          I live. This is where my friends live.
                  (beat)
          He has to be stopped.
                  (no arguments)
          He has to be.
 
                         SANDMAN
          You know ... what you are asking?
 
                         ROSE
                  (nods)
          I know. I have to. It's ... it's my 
          responsibility.
 
Sandman studies her face. She returns his gaze. Tears well up 
in her eyes. She turns away.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      93.
 
 
                         ROSE
          Do it!
 
Sandman nods slowly.
 
                         SANDMAN
          It is my responsibility.
 
He cradles her in his arms, touches her face as her eyes 
close --
 
                         SANDMAN
          Wait!
 
Rose's eyes snap open.
 
                         SANDMAN
          There is another way. 
 
                         ROSE
          No --
 
                         SANDMAN
          Yes! Of course. He is nothing but a 
          dream. And you -- you are that which can 
          destroy dreams. Together, we can beat 
          him. Together.
                  (beat)
          We must join our souls.
 
                         ROSE
          How?
 
                         SANDMAN
          How do any two people join their souls?
 
Sandman leans down --
 
-- and KISSES HER.
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - HALLWAY - NIGHT
 
The doors slam open. The Corinthian spins--
 
Sandman and Rose stand there, hands linked, power radiating 
from them.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Come, Corinthian. Let this be finished.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Yes. Let it be finished, one way or the 
          other.
 
The Corinthian lunges forward, the RUBY metamorphosing into a 
DAGGER.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      94.
 
 
Sandman pours sand from the pouch into Rose's palm, then his 
own.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Follow my lead.
 
He claps his hands together, draws them apart --
 
HE HOLDS A SHIELD OF SAND. He parries the Corinthian's 
charge, shoves him away.
 
Rose follows suit, creating a sword. She looks at it, 
surprised, then lunges forward, swinging for the Corinthian --
 
The Corinthian ducks, STABS the Ruby Dagger into her leg. 
 
She CRIES OUT. The sword becomes sand again, cascading to the 
floor.
 
Sandman slams the Corinthian with the shield. The ruby dagger 
still protrudes from Rose's leg. Sandman hits the Corinthian 
again -- his sunglasses go flying, revealing his eye sockets 
LINED WITH TEETH.
 
Cornered, the Corinthian steels himself and PUNCHES --
 
-- THROUGH THE SHIELD. He grabs Sandman by the throat. 
Sandman struggles to break free. The Corinthian leans in, EYE 
SOCKET MOUTHS snapping for Sandman's throat, drawing closer --
 
Suddenly, the Corinthian STIFFENS -- an eerie double scream 
issues from his eye sockets. He staggers back --
 
The Ruby Dagger has been plunged deep into his back. Rose 
stands behind him, staring at her handiwork. The Corinthian 
reaches toward her, almost shrugging -- and then he is dead.
 
Rose looks up at Sandman. 
 
Sandman steps to her, sweeping her up into his arms, looking 
deep into her eyes --
 
THEY KISS AGAIN, passionately, as we
 
                                                 DISSOLVE TO:
 
INT.  DREAM REALM - SANDMAN'S PALACE - DAY
 
Sandman and Rose break their kiss. In best fairy-tale movie 
fashion, they now stand in the throne room of the palace, 
dressed in finery. Sandman leads Rose up the steps, to --
 
TWO THRONES, identical, equal. He gestures for her to sit. 
She does; he takes his place beside her. Rose looks around in 
happy wonder at the palace. She turns to look at Sandman, who 
is already watching her.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      95.
 
 
CAMERA MOVES IN as he takes her hand, their fingers 
intertwining --
 
                         DEATH (O.S.)
          Brother ...
 
 
INT.  HOTEL - LOBBY - NIGHT
 
Death stands there. She is subdued, sad.
 
Sandman looks up. A tear runs down his cheek.
 
                         DEATH
          That was a lovely final dream you gave 
          her.
 
Sandman cradles Rose in his arms. Her head lolls back. She is 
dead.
 
                         SANDMAN
          She deserved no less.
 
Death nods. She sweeps an arm across Rose's body --
 
There is the SOUND OF WINGS, and then Death is gone.
 
Sandman rises. There are mirror tiles on one entire wall. 
Sandman glances at his many reflections --
 
Floating just beyond one of them is DESPAIR.
 
                         DESPAIR
          No. Do not enter. I do not want you in my 
          realm.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Nor do I wish to be there.
 
He turns away from the mirror as Despair fades.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          So, you did it.
 
The Corinthian stands in the hallway. He stares at Rose's 
body, prone on the tarmac.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Why, you're an inspiration to us all.
                  (looks up at Sandman)
          I still have the ruby. It is enough to 
          kill you. More than enough.
 
Sandman stands, reaching beneath his coat, producing his 
helm.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      96.
 
 
                         SANDMAN
          Perhaps it can. It has absorbed much of 
          my soul-self already. But if you would 
          fight me, you shall not do it here. The 
          dream realm is repaired.
 
Sandman puts on his helm, giving his voice an even more 
otherworldly sound --
 
                         SANDMAN
          If you would steal a dreamlord's power, 
          than you shall do it in dreams.
 
Sandman pulls darkness around himself, and then he is gone.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          COWARD. 
                  (to the Ruby)
          Follow him. Take me into dreams, my 
          darling ...
 
The RUBY FLASHES BLOOD RED --
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - DUSK
 
A LINE OF LIGHT appears, becomes the outline of a door. The 
door opens, and the Corinthian steps through --
 
                         CORINTHIAN
                  (shouting)
          I'm no mere nightmare now, Sandman. I'm 
          here to kill you. 
 
The Corinthian stands in a CEMETERY. A grave stands empty.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Show yourself, Sandman. You can't hide 
          forever ...
 
A pause. No answer. The Corinthian uses the ruby to BLAST a 
section of the cemetery --
 
-- and the illusion of a world is RIPPED AWAY, torn like a 
painting. Revealed behind the tear are many CLOCKWORK GEARS.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Can you see me, stinkard lord of piss and 
          mire? Look!
 
Another BLAST -- the clockworks fly to pieces, as well as the 
rest of the cemetery. 
 
Revealed behind the clockworks are--
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      97.
 
 
HUNDREDS of FACES, floating in darkness, eyes shut in sleep. 
A sky of faces, a landscape of faces, surrounding the 
Corinthian. This is the world of the Dreaming.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Can you see me using your power to rip 
          your ragtag dreamworld apart? Can you see 
          me?
 
Another BLAST -- the faces twist in pain, wavering. Several 
scream out.
 
                         SANDMAN (O.S.)
          Stop! Enough, Corinthian! I am here! 
          Desist.
 
The lenses of Sandman's helm reflect the Corinthian, who 
smiles.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Yes. You're here. Hello.
                  (indicates the ruby)
          This is a lovely thing, isn't it? It 
          contains your life. Your magick. Your 
          power.
                  (beat)
          RIGHT?
 
                         SANDMAN
          ... right.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          And the last time you used it, it sucked 
          out more. Yes?
                  (beat)
          YES?
 
                         SANDMAN
          Corinthian ... stop. You are tampering 
          with the order of things ...
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          SHUT UP! I'm going to ruin all of it. 
          Every bit.
 
He holds the Ruby over his head. It GLOWS. A BEAM knives into 
Sandman's heart. He moans --
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Does that hurt? I bet it does. I bet it 
          hurts. A lot.
 
The beam widens. Sandman slumps, seemingly shrinking --
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          What does it feel like? To have the life 
          sucked out of you?
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      98.
 
 
                         SANDMAN
          Stop -- the dreamers --
 
The faces still look on, themselves being drained of 
vitality, growing gaunt, withered, desiccated --
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          I hold your life in my hands. I can kill 
          you.
 
He closes his hands around the Ruby, squeezing --
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          This IS your life, dreamsneak. And I'm 
          crushing it out with my hands!
 
 
EXT.  DESTINY'S GARDEN - TWILIGHT
 
Destiny stands in his garden, reading from his great book. 
His finger traces the words, reaches the bottom of the page. 
He prepares to turn to the next one --
 
-- and HESITATES. Just a moment --
 
And then he turns the page --
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - DUSK
 
The Corinthian's knuckles are white with strain --
 
The ruby SHATTERS --
 
BLOOD-RED LIGHT flares, hurting the eyes, filling the screen 
 
-- and then it fades, leaving a WHITE SCREEN --
 
-- and the small figure of the Corinthian, looking surprised, 
and then smug.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          It worked. He's gone.
 
He can scarcely believe it.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          The king is dead. And long live the king! 
          Look who's in charge of the Dreaming, now ...
                  (glances around)
          ... what's left of it.
 
He takes a few steps. The world remains PURE WHITE. He drops 
to his knees. Alone, by himself, the Corinthian actually 
smiles -- a genuine, relieved smile.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      99.
 
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          I'm free again. Finally.
 
                         SANDMAN (O.S.)
          Thank you, Corinthian.
 
CAMERA PULLS BACK, way back, revealing --
 
The Corinthian has been standing in the pale white palm of 
Sandman's hand. 
 
PULL BACK MORE. Sandman is huge now, a giant. He peers down 
at the tiny figure of the Corinthian.
 
                         SANDMAN
          It has been so long. I had forgotten ... 
          I had forgotten how much of my power I 
          had placed in that jewel. And you 
          released it.
                  (considers)
          I doubt I would have thought of that.
 
The Corinthian looks up at Sandman, not quite cowering, but 
no longer cocksure. Timid.
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          What are you going to do to me?
 
The Sandman begins to shrink.
 
                         SANDMAN
          You disappoint me, Corinthian. You were 
          my masterpiece, or so I thought.
 
He stands beside the Corinthian now.
 
                         SANDMAN
          A nightmare created to be the darkness 
          and the fear of darkness in every human 
          heart. A dark mirror, made to reflect 
          everything about itself that humanity 
          will not confront.
 
He touches the Corinthian's face.
 
                         SANDMAN
          But look at you. Twenty years walking the 
          earth, and what have you given them? 
          Nothing. You've told them there are bad 
          people out there.
                  (sadly)
          And they've known that all along.
 
The Corinthian wrenches away from him.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      100.
 
 
                         CORINTHIAN
          Do you expect me to submit quietly? To go 
          back -- to never again know the delights 
          of an eye as it pops between my teeth? Is 
          that it?
 
                         SANDMAN
          No. That's not it.
 
He grabs the Corinthian by the jaw, tight.
 
                         SANDMAN (CONT'D)
          I created you poorly, then. As I do 
          uncreate you now.
 
The Corinthian SCREAMS--
 
His skin dissolves, leaving the skeleton--
 
The skeleton fades away, except the skull, still in Sandman's 
hand. Sandman stares into its eye sockets filled with teeth.
 
Behind him, around him, the sleeping faces FADE IN. Hundreds 
of them, all races, all ages, all genders...
 
...and all sleeping peacefully.
 
Sandman TURNS TO CAMERA --
 
                         SANDMAN
          And YOU, that call yourselves collectors --
 
 
EXT.  HOTEL - BANQUET HALL - NIGHT
 
He's behind the podium, addressing the audience of killers.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Until now, you have all sustained 
          fantasies in which you are the maltreated 
          heroes of your own stories.
 
Nimrod slouches in his seat. Funland looks away. 
 
                         SANDMAN (CONT'D)
          Comforting daydreams in which, 
          ultimately, you are shown to be in the 
          right.
                  (beat)
          No more.
 
And now all the eyes in the room are on him.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      101.
 
 
                         SANDMAN (CONT'D)
          For all of you, the dream is over. I have 
          taken it away. For this is my judgment on 
          you:
 
 
EXT.  HOTEL - NIGHT
 
The killers leave the hotel. Some seem to want to talk to 
others, but ultimately, they don't.
 
                         SANDMAN (V.O.)
          That you shall know, at all times, and 
          forever, exactly what you are. And you 
          shall know just how little that means.
                  (tired)
          Now, leave.
 
Funland is one of the last. He takes off his cap, and drops 
it. The wind kicks up, blowing it across the parking lot. The 
killers just drift away, fading into the darkness.
 
                                              FADE TO BLACK
 
 
EXT.  CEMETERY - DAY
 
A bright day, not at all proper for a funeral. The white 
flowers around the casket look almost festive in the sun.
 
Rose's friends are gathered at the gravesite. Most we met at 
the party, including Kelly, Sam (holding Rose's kitten), and 
Paul, who stands at the head of the grave. 
 
                         PAUL
          I, uh, I'd like to read something ... a 
          poem, from one of Rose's -- 
                  (his voice breaks; he gathers 
                   himself)
          This is from Rose's favorite book, and 
          it, uh -- it meant a lot to her ... 
                  (clears his throat) 
          "In Wonderland they lie
          "Drifting as the days go by
          "Watching as the summers die
          "Lying in the golden gleam ..."
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - SANDMAN'S PALACE - DUSK 
 
The palace has been rebuilt. The surrounding land is green. 
Sandman stands on a balcony, head inclined, listening.
 
                         PAUL (V.O.)
          "... Life is but a dream."
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      102.
 
 
Lucien steps onto the balcony, nervous about disturbing 
Sandman. Matthew, perched on Lucien's shoulder, is not.
 
                         MATTHEW
          Hey, boss. Heads up.
 
Sandman raises his head, but does not look at them.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Yes?
 
                         LUCIEN
          My lord ... there are nightmares to be 
          inspected.
 
Sandman turns. He peers at the two of them.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Lucien ... In my absence, you did not 
          leave. You remained at your post, in the 
          Library.
 
                         LUCIEN
          Ah ... yes, lord. I'm a librarian, after 
          all.
 
                         SANDMAN
          That is true. Still ... 
                  (beat)
          Thank you, Lucien.
 
Lucien is startled -- but genuinely pleased.
 
                         LUCIEN
          You -- you're welcome, my lord.
 
Matthew flutters to Sandman's shoulder. Cocks his head.
 
                         MATTHEW
          You've changed, boss ... you know that?
 
                         SANDMAN
          Have I? I am still Dream, and I still 
          have my responsibilities.
 
                         LUCIEN
          The nightmares..?
 
Dream glances down -- almost as though he's looking back at 
the funeral.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Of course. But, first, I think something 
          a bit more ... inspirational.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      103.
 
 
EXT.  DREAM REALM - ROCKY SPIRE - DAY
 
We recognize Paul's dream: He clings to the spire, unable to 
climb higher, afraid to fall. He grasps for a better 
handhold, then glances up -- 
 
Sandman stands precariously, impossibly, on the very tip of 
the spire, Matthew perched on his shoulder.
 
                         PAUL
          Who -- who are you?
 
                         MATTHEW
          Hey, buddy. You look screwed.
 
                         PAUL
          I never should have climbed up here! I 
          learned my lesson ... 
 
                         SANDMAN
          Have you? It is sometimes a mistake to 
          climb. It is always a mistake to never 
          even make the attempt.
 
                         PAUL
          But I'm caught here! If I even move, I'll 
          fall! I'll die! Aren't you scared of 
          falling?
 
                         MATTHEW
          Not me.
 
                         SANDMAN
          Hush, Matthew.
                  (to Paul)
          Is it that bad to fall? Sometimes you 
          wake, and sometimes, yes, you die.
 
Sandman turns and nonchalantly walks away -- across thin air. 
He pauses, turns back to Paul.
 
                         SANDMAN
          But there is a third alternative.
 
Paul stares into his face. It is the same face that Roderick 
Burgess looked into nearly seventy years earlier: the same 
aquiline nose, the same sharp cheekbones, the same dark 
eyesbut now it is less harsh. Less foreboding.
 
Paul swallows. He nods. And --
 
PAUL LETS GO. He arcs away from the spire, out and down in 
slow motion. Is he falling -- or is he flying?
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      104.
 
 
INT.  PAUL'S LOFT - NIGHT
 
Paul wakes up. Across the room, a large blank canvas stands 
on an easel, beckoning, taunting.  Paul stares at it, then 
rises. Like a sleepwalker, moves toward it -- 
 
Paul mixes paint on a palette -- 
He uses a roller to create a powder blue sky, like the one in 
his dream -- 
He sketches in the spire with charcoal -- 
He begins to paint a figure -- 
 
The figure is in mid-air, having let go of the precipice -- 
And it is flying, arms outstretched. But it is not Paul. 
 
It is ROSE, smiling as she soars.
 
CAMERA PUSHES IN on Rose's smiling face, closer and closer 
until detail is lost in nearness, and we 
 
                                              FADE TO BLACK
 
                         THE END
 
 

